--- Page 1 ---
DINED WITH THE PRESIDENT

FIRST STATE DINNER OF THE
SEASON AT THE WHITE HOUSE.

Mr. Cleveland Exutertnins His Cabinet
and Their Wives, with a Few In-
vited Guests —The Pariors of the
Executive Mansion Transformed to
Blooming Conservatories for the
Occasion—The Gowns of Mrs. Cleve
land and Other Ladies Present.

WASHINGTON, Jan. 4.—The first state
dinner of the season was given to-night by
President and Mrs. Cleveland in honor of
the Cabinet. The decorations in the Hast
Room, where the President and Mrs. Cleve-
land received their guests, were very elabo-
rate. The mantels were banked with ferns,
and below, on the floor, was a massing of
foliage plants and small palms. The mirror
rests were banked with white hyacinths
and scarlet poinsetta blossoms. The win-
dow recesses were filled with tall follage
plants. The crystal chandeliers were fes-
tooned with smilax and the central divan
was encircled with palms and small plants.

The general effect of the decorations was
scarlet and green, this idea being carried
out in all the apartments and in the state

dining room, where the window recesses
were banked to the ceiling with india-rub-
ber plants and palms intermingled with
poinsetta. In the Red Parlor the mantel
was lined with white primroses; the only
other decorations were a few palms about
the tables. In the Blue Room the rear win-
dows were banked with palms and poin-
setta, the latter flowers, combined with
white primroses and hyacinths, forming the
decorations on the mirror rests.

The decorations of the table in the state
dining room were effective and graceful.
At either enu of the centrepiece, an ellipsis
of ferns studded with orchids of the slip-
per variety, were circular pieces of orchids,
from the middle of which rose tall pine-
apple plants, the leaves changing from
green to crimson on the edges. Beyond
these on the end sections of the table were
plats of ferns studded with the slipper or-
chids. At each end of the table the gold
candelabra held tapers under scarlet
shades, while the wax candles in the silver
candelabra were under yellow shades. At
each place was a cluster of orchids and as-
paragus vine, a single orchid being at the
place for each of the gentlemen.

The guests at the dinner were Vice Presi-
dent and Mrs. Stevenson, Secretary of State
and Mrs. Gresham, Secretary of the Treas-
ury and Mrs. Carlisle, Secretary of War
and Mrs. Jamont, the Attorney General
and Mrs. Olney, the Postmaster General
and Mrs. Bisse]l, Secretary of the Navy and
Mrs. Herbert, Secretary of the Interior and
Mrs. Hoke Smith, Secretary of Agriculture
and Miss Morton, the Speaker of the House’
and Mrs. Crisp, Senator and Miss Voorhees,
Senator Harris, Senator and Mrs. Gorman,
Senator and Mrs. Mills, Senator and Mrs.
Jones of Arkansas, Gen. and Mrs. Scho-
field, Admiral Gherardi, Mrs. Henry T.
Thurber, Gov. ond Mrs. Pattison of Penn-
Sylvania, ex-Gov. John E. Russell of Mas-
sachusetts and Mrs. Russell, Miss Thomas
of Boston, Mr. and Mrs. Charles W. Good-
year of Buffalo, N. Y.; Mr. C. C.. Baldwin
and Miss Baldwin of New-York, Mr. James
Stillman and Miss Stillman of New-York,
and Mr. anu Mrs. William L. Wilson.

Mrs. Cleveland’s gown was of rose-pink
moire antique, made perfectly plain, with a
fall of fine white thread lace about the low
neck corsage, in front of which were dia-
mond clusters of wild roses, presented to her
on the occasion of her marriage by ex-Sec-
reta Whitney. Her hair was worn
rolled back from her face into a low coll at
the back, and was spanned from across the
front by a strand of large solitaire dla-
monds.

Mrs. Stevenson’s gown was of white satin
brocade, trimmed with ermine; Mrs. Gresh-
am’s of white satin: Mrs. Carlistle’s of light-
blue and gold brecade; Mrs. Lamont’s of
white satin and duchesse lace, with mauve
velvet trimmings; Mrs. Olney’s of black
velvet, with diamonds. Mrs. Bissell wore a
light-blue brocade, with short puffed sleeves
and trimmings of mauve chiffon; Mrs. Hoke
Smith, white silk and duchesse lace; Miss
Herbert, white satin; Miss Morton, black
silk; Mrs. John E. Russell, stone-gray satin
brocaded in black, with black thread lace;
Mrs. Goodyear, white satin; Mrs. Schofield,
white satin; Mrs. Gorman, yellow satin, with
black thread lace and otter; Mrs. Jones,
white silk: Mrs. Pattison, white brocade,
Miss Voorhees, blue moire; Mrs. William
L. Wilson, pink satin, and Miss Thomas,
black and white striped satin.

The President escorted the wife of the
Vice President to dinner, where she occu-
pied the place at his right

Ehe New ork Eimes

Published: January 5, 1894
Copyright © The New York Times
