i ii 


y 


ood 


an 


Sar 





a i “y 

Hs 
j siy 3 al 
PIS QUE à 


8 


E 


EN 


mo 


T H 


| 





Li ii | | 


3 00971 2234 


IP Poly : 


wy 


gm pog 


Mae, J ra 


RE er 


A Mastering D 


the Art 
Of French 





D Cooking 


| Sa aT SE 
+ Say vt | at «à 
| Qu GN FORTE 
iSong 
dy este a pete 
“GAT ee 





+ 
-t 
+ 


os 
Ea ex 


A$.) 


“Anyone can cook in the French manner any- 
where,” wrote Mesdames Beck, Bertholle, and 
Child, “with the right instruction.” And here is 
the book that, for forty years, has been teach- 
ing Americans how. 


Mastering the Art of French Cooking is for both 
seasoned cooks and beginners who love good 
food and long to reproduce at home the savory 
delights of the classic cuisine, from the historic 
Gallic masterpieces to the seemingly artless per- 
fection of a dish of spring-green peas. This 
beautiful book, with more than one hundred 
instructive illustrations, is revolutionary in its 
approach because: 

a It leads the cook infallibly from the buying 
and handling of raw ingredients, through each 
essential step of a recipe, to the final creation of a 
delicate confection. 

e It breaks down the classic cuisine into a log- 
ical sequence of themes and variations rather 
than presenting an endless and diffuse catalogue 
of recipes; the focus is on key recipes that form 
the backbone of French cookery and lend them- 
selves to an infinite number of elaborations— 
bound to increase anyone’s culinary repertoire. 

e It adapts classical techniques, wherever 
possible, to modern American conveniences. 

* It shows Americans how to buy products, 
from any supermarket in the U.S.A., that repro- 
duce the exact taste and texture of the French 
ingredients: equivalent meat cuts, for example; 
the right beans for a cassoulet; the appropriate 
fish and shellfish for a bouillabaisse. 

a It offers suggestions for just the right 
accompaniment to each dish, including proper 
wines. 

Since there has never been a book as instruc- 
tive and as workable as Mastering the Art of 
French Cooking, the techniques learned here can 
be applied to recipes in all other French cook- 
books, making them infinitely more usable. In 
compiling the secrets of famous cordons bleus, 
the authors have produced a magnificent vol- 
ume that is sure to find the place of honor in 
every kitchen in America. 














z p 
a a 
De 
7 eo l Ÿ $ 
TETTE f 


+ se © num: i 


a 


BY JULIA CHILD AND SIMONE BECK 


Mastering the Art of French Cooking (1970) 


VOLUME TWO 





BY JULIA CHILD 


The French Chef Cookbook (1968) 
From Julia Child’s Kitchen (1975) 
Julia Child & Company (1978) 

Julia Child & More Company (1979) 
The Way to Cook (1989) 

Cooking with Master Chefs (1993) 

In Julia Kitchen with Master Chefs (1995) 
Julta’s Kitchen Wisdom (2000) 


BY JULIA CHILD AND JACQUES PEPIN 


Julia and Jacques Cooking at Home (1999) 





BY SIMONE BECK 


Simcea’s Cuisine (1972) 


More Recipes From Simca’s Cuisine (1979) 


Mastering the Art of French Cooking 


VOLUME ONE 


CAD 


NE 


Illustrations by Sidonie Coryn 

















MASTERING THE 
ART OF 
FRENCH COOKING 


VOLUME ONE 





Fortieth Anniversary Edition 





by { PUBLIC \ 


Julia Child we 
Louisette Bertholle * 
Simone Beck 


> ds 


New York Alfred A. Knopf 2005 











31143009712234 

641.5944 Child 

Child, Julia. 

Mastering the art of . 
French cooking. Volume 1 


Fortieth annivereary ed. 


x 





THIS IS A BORZOI BOOK 
PUBLISHED BY ALFRED A. KNOPF 





Copyright © 1961, 1983, 2001 by Alfred A. Knopf 
All rights reserved under International and Pan-American Copyright Conventions. 
Published in the United States by Alfred A. Knopf, a division of Random House, Inc., 
New York, and simultaneously in Canada by Random House of Canada Limited, 
Toronto. Distributed by Random House, Inc., New York. 
www.aaknopf.com 
Knopf, Borzoi Books, and the colophon are registered trademarks 
of Random House, Inc. 


Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data 
Child, Julia. Mastering the art of French cooking. 
Rev. ed. of: Mastering the art of French cooking / Simone Beck, 
Louisette Bertholle, Julia Child. 

Vol. 2 by Julia Child and Simone Beck. 
Includes index. 

1. Cookery, French. I. Bertholle, Louisette. 

II. Beck, Simone. TII. Beck, Simone. Mastering the art 
of French cooking. IV. Title. 

TX719.C454 1983 641.5944 83-48113 
ISBN 0-394-40178-6 (set) 

ISBN 0-394-72114-4 (pbk.: set) 

ISBN 0-394-53399-2 (v. 1) 

ISBN 0-394-72178-0 (pbk.: v. 1, 40th ann. ed.) 
ISBN 0-394-40152-2 (v. 2) 

ISBN 0-394-72177-2 (pbk.: v. 2) 

ISBN 0-375-41340-5 (v. 1, 40th ann. ed.) 


Manufactured in the United States of America 
PUBLISHED OCTOBER 16, 1961 
REPRINTED NINETEEN TIMES 
TWENTY-FIRST REPRINT FROM NEW PLATES OCTOBER 1971 
REPRINTED TWELVE TIMES 
THIRTY-FOURTH PRINTING (REVISED) SEPTEMBER 1983 
FORTIETH ANNIVERSARY EDITION, OCTOBER 16, 2001 
REPRINTED THREE TIMES x 


FIFTH PRINTING, FEBRUARY 2005 


TO 


La Belle France 


WHOSE PEASANTS, FISHERMEN, HOUSEWIVES, 
AND PRINCES — NOT TO MENTION HER CHEFS — 
THROUGH GENERATIONS OF INVENTIVE AND 
LOVING CONCENTRATION HAVE CREATED ONE 


OF THE WORLD'S GREAT ARTS 











Pa Nat 3 
ve UE om 


Fr 
E + 
roman RAM Ar" PS ee 
Fe san ps = Ra An ae 


+ BER war, te a Weak Oo oy 


s m 
ir WPS T aa C 
| ~ = Los o a 
oe M = … Er 
SM at HAS EUR a "Lula LE a 
2 : j 
ie cle Me i 7 > à 
5 ga. TI aad Ar Te ag W ‘ ‘ S i 7 ; 
eo Bs See A ie 





en “à 











INTRODUCTION TO 
THE ANNIVERSARY EDITION 


by Julia Child 


Wir was AMERICAN food like forty years ago when this book 
first appeared? It’s hard for me to remember since the “now” is so 
much with me. I grew up in Southern California, in a comfortable 
family, with a New England background since my mother was from 
Massachusetts. We ate in the typically middle-class WASP American 
way of the teens and twenties—a big prime-rib roast of beef for the tra- 
ditional family Sunday lunch of twelve to fourteen people. If not beef 
we might have a fine, big, well-aged leg of lamb—always cooked 
medium gray, never pinky-red rare, and always served with mint 
sauce as well as gravy. Or there would be a fat roasted chicken with 
creamed onions and mashed potatoes. Always an enthusiastic carni- 
vore, I particularly remember the beef, not only rib roasts but also 
magnificent big well-marbled porterhouse steaks. They were full of 
real beefy flavor in those days, and they were juicy. Of course, that was 
the happy era when emphasis was on the quality of the beef, not the 
fat content. Our family cooking was essentially simple and straight- 
forward, and since it was California we always had plenty of fresh 
fruits and vegetables. 

As to specifics, I remember aspics. Jellied madrilene was a favorite 
fancy soup of the period, a beef consommé flavored with fresh tomato 
and topped with a splash of whipped cream—that was before sour 
cream came upon us. Melba toast was a standard accompaniment to 
the soup at ladies’ luncheons—and there were many of them then 
because running a household rather than having a career gave many 
women the leisure time. These carefully orchestrated meals often 
featured a large molded ring of tomato aspic, its center filled with 
chicken, crab, or lobster salad. 














Vill 








es 





I cannot forget one ladies’ lunch back in the 1950s. Our hostess 
proudly led us to our seats around a nicely appointed table where we 
each sat down to a pretty china plate upon ‘which stood an upright, 
somewhat phallic-shaped molded aspic holding in suspension diced 
green grapes, diced marshmallows, and diced bananas. Surrounded 
lavishly but neatly with squirts of whipped cream, this lovingly con- 
structed edifice rested on several leaves of iceberg lettuce far too small 
to hide anything under. After the main course, and grandly brought in 
to the acclaim of the guests, was a very large and high coconut cake, 
almost certainly made from a cake mix and, again, constructed with 
utmost care. That was a quite typical, dressy example of the period, 
created earnestly and with the most generous intentions. 

When Paul and I married in the mid 1940s I had very little 
kitchen experience, but since his mother was a fine cook and he had 
lived in France, I went into it seriously with Gourmet magazine and Joy 
of Cooking as my guides. It took hours to get dinner on the table, but he 
was encouraging. A year or so after our marriage he was offered a posi- 
tion at the American embassy in Paris. 

It was a dream fulfilled. I had always yearned to know France, 
and Paul, having lived there for several years as a penniless young man, 
dreamed of returning. He had a gift for languages and spoke beautiful 
French. As for me, although I had taken French all during my school 
years, it was taught in that useless old-fashioned way where you rarely 
heard the spoken language but you knew the declensions of all the 
verbs. Thus, I could neither speak French nor understand it. We were 
fortunate indeed to rent the top floor of a fine old Louis XVI-style pri- 
vate house, and as soon as we settled ourselves I enrolled in the Berlitz 
school of languages for two hours every day. Then, when I had a foot 
on the language, I enrolled in the Cordon Bleu cooking school. With 
Paul’s help plus the Berlitz, and especially being at the Cordon Bleu 
where at that time all the lessons were in French, conversation was 
slowly beginning to come. 

Nobody I knew, either American or French, seemed at all inter- 
ested in la cuisine française. My American colleagues had little femmes 
de ménage who did the housekeeping, shopping, and cooking, and I 
was considered more than a little odd because I did all the cooking and 
marketing—such fun!—as well as the serving when we had company. 
Then one day a friend in the embassy introduced me to Simone Beck 








iX 














28 


Fischbacher—a tall, blond, vivacious Frenchwoman, known as Simca. 
She was passionate about cooking, had grown up in a household of fine 
food, and had taken many.lessons with the Cordon Bleu school’s mas- 
ter chef, Henri Pellaprat. We took to each other at once, and she intro- 
duced me to Le Cercle des Gourmettes, a French ladies’ gastronomical 
club that met every other Tuesday to cook and eat lunch in the kitchens 
of the electric company. 

The members of Les Gourmettes were mostly in their sixties and 
seventies and came just for the luncheon. Simca’s friend and colleague 
Louisette Bertholle was also a member, and the three of us made a 
point of arriving at 9:00 a.m. so that we could work with the chef. We 
helped in the preparation of wonderfully elaborate dishes such as 
stuffed pheasants, poached oysters served in classic wine sauces, and 
beautifully molded desserts. What a marvelous opportunity it was for 
me, a foreigner, to be accepted in a totally French atmosphere and to be 
witness to and participant in the preparation of the most stylish type of 
la cuisine bourgeoise. My several Paris years with them gave me an 
invaluable experience and background. 

During this period some American friends of mine asked Loui- 
sette, Simca, and me to give them cooking lessons. They wanted a real 
introduction, from cuisine ménagère, such as how to boil a potato, on 
up to pâtés en croûte. They didn’t speak the language and preferred us 
to a school. Simca, always the enthusiast, agreed, and L'Ecole des 3 
Gourmandes—School of the 3 Happy Eaters—was born in 1950. We 
not only conducted the classes ourselves, but we also enlisted the pro- 
fessional help of my favorite Cordon Bleu teacher, Chef Max Bugnard. 

Chef Bugnard had begun as a young apprentice in his family’s 
restaurant kitchen, then did classic “stages” in Paris, on several luxuri- 
ous transatlantic steamers of the period, as well as at the Ritz in Lon- 
don, where he worked briefly under the great Escoffier. Before World 
War II Chef Bugnard had had his own restaurant in Bruxelles, Le 
Petit Vatel, but was forced to flee before the occupying Germans. 
When I became one of his pupils, he had retired from restaurant life 
and was teaching. 

We raided the Cordon Bleu again in soliciting the services of its 
excellent pastry chef and teacher Claude Thilmont. As a younger man 
Chef Thilmont had been the pâtissier at the Café de Paris, during 
which period he also worked with the author herself in the writing of 


— 





























her seminal book for the French home cook, Le Livre de Cuisine de 
Mme. E. Saint-Ange. 

You may well wonder how we were able to acquire such real 
treasures in our modest classes. I think that in their later years many 
chefs of the old school welcomed teaching. They were adored by their 
pupils, their work hours were civilized, and the pay was undoubtedly 
superior to what they could make in restaurant kitchens. We three 
teachers were thus being subsidized by our own pupils—not a bad idea! 

For several years before we met one another, Simca and Louisette 
had been involved in writing a book on French cooking for Ameri- 
cans. They needed an American collaborator, and I was delighted to 
join. Because we had to write up all the recipes for our school, the basis 
for our book slowly took shape. We gave especially full directions for 
all the dishes we cooked in class, and we also wanted to discuss in detail 
hows and whys and basic techniques. In general our aim was to take 
out the mystique and to make French cooking make sense. As the 
work progressed Paul and I were transferred from Paris to Marseilles, 
and then to Germany. Our last post was in Norway, where he finally 
left the diplomatic service. We then settled in our big, old, gray- 
clapboard three-story house in Cambridge, Massachusetts. During this 
separation, voluminous recipes and discussions flew back and forth. 

When at last our book was published the Kennedys were in the 
White House and whatever they did was news, including how they 
lived and even what they ate. They had a talented French chef in resi- 
dence, René Verdon, and one read frequently about their spectacular 
dinners. In 1961 Americans were beginning to go to Europe almost by 
droves, taking but a few hours for the voyage by plane rather than al- 
most a week by boat. People were interested in more adventurous foods, 
and serving those meals at home was becoming a matter of pride. 

Simca came from Paris to help launch the book—her first visit to 
America. Although she spoke English, she did so in a delightfully 
French way, and was in every aspect very French indeed. In fact Paul 
and I always called her “La Super Française.” The cooking classes that 
she had been conducting for Americans in Paris during the years 
before the book came out meant that she had friends and former stu- 
dents in various cities here. It was she who suggested we go out and 
drum up some sales. Book tours were something of a novelty then even 
for well-known authors, and certainly unusual for writers of cook- 








va 


+ 


2 


k 











xl 














books. I don’t know how we had the chutzpah, but off we went, Simca 
and Paul and I. We had announced to our friends that we were coming 
and asked them to provide us with opportunities. 

Our first stop was in Chicago, where Simca and I both had 
friends, and we did interviews and cooking demonstrations in private 
houses and for the Chicago Tribune. Then we went on to Detroit, and 
when in San Francisco we were asked to do a demonstration at one of 
the big department stores. The wife of the owner, in a fit of exuber- 
ance, had purchased dozens of madeleine pans—the kind you use for 
those shell-shaped little French cakes made famous by Marcel Proust 
in Remembrance of Things Past. But nobody there was familiar with 
them. Simca, of course, knew all about madeleines, so we made them 
by the score during our demonstrations, the audiences gobbled them, 
and the store sold so many pans it had to order more. 

The demonstration in my hometown of Pasadena, California, was 
in the theater of a private club where there were no cooking facilities. 
However, we had managed to procure a portable stove and cooktop, 
buckets for water, and a six-foot demonstration table, and were able to 
produce a quite complicated menu. We started out with Roquefort 
quiche, an exotic dish at that time, which you'll find here on page 148. 
Then we demonstrated a handsome fish mousse baked in a ring mold, 
an example of which is on page 562, and we finished with Simca’s sig- 
nature Queen of Sheba chocolate almond cake, page 677, and my all- 
time favorite. Looking back on the menu, I am amazed that we 
managed such sophisticated food in such minimal conditions. 

The morning went off very well, but then we were to repeat the 
performance for the afternoon demonstration. While Simca and I had 
to stay onstage signing cookbooks and receiving the audience, my Paul, 
who always volunteered to do anything that was needed, was left alone 
to clean up—a sticky, fishy, chocolatey mess. And where did he wash 
the dishes? He took over the tiny closet-size ladies’ room with its little 
sink and soap dispenser, and he cleaned up every plate, utensil, and 
platter. I often marvel at this valiant and uncomplaining contribution 
to our cause by a former diplomat and cultural attaché. 

Our tour ended in New York, with a dinner at the restaurant of 
Dione Lucas, the country’s most revered and well-known teacher of 
French cooking. When Simca had arrived in New York before our 
tour, Judith Jones, our young editor at Knopf, asked us whom we 


ee 




















would especially like to meet. I had always wanted to know James 
Beard, and Simca wanted to see Dione Lucas, since they had mutual 
friends in Normandy. A date was madè in Dione’s restaurant, where 
we sat up at her counter and talked while she made us her famous 
omelets for lunch. She and Simca had immediately started an ani- 
mated conversation about Normandy, and finally Dione said to Simca, 
“I want to give you a dinner party!” What unheard-of generosity! We 
fixed a date in December, when we were to have finished our tour. 

We had numerous telephone calls with Dione during our trip, 
and one endless conversation between Simca and our future hostess 
involved a pay telephone at Disneyland, and multiple quarters sup- 
plied by Paul. The menu was finally agreed upon. Dione was to pre- 
pare the first course, her renowned filets of sole in a splendid classical 
white wine sauce, and the dessert. We were to furnish the main course, 
Epaule d’Agneau Viroflay—the boned shoulder of lamb on page 335, 
but with a spinach and mushroom stuffing. We were to provide the 
wines—fortunately, Simca had a cousin in the business. We were also 
to supply the guest list. 

The three of us professional neophytes, however, had no friends in 
the New York food establishment, although we knew some of the 
names. So we turned to nice James Beard, who entered into the project 
with his usual enthusiasm. Under his guidance we invited all the 
“who’s-a-whoms” we could think of, and surprisingly almost all of 
them accepted—some thirty or so people. 

On the day of the dinner, while Simca and I were closeted with 
our lamb in my niece’s tiny fourth-floor walk-up apartment way off on 
New York’s east side, Paul took over the front of the house. He found a 
printer to produce the menus in record time. He made out the place 
cards, arranged the seating, and even opened the wine just before the 
guests arrived. Kind James Beard got there early and introduced us 
and our Knopf friends, Judith Jones and Bill Koshland, to all the 
guests as they arrived. It was a wonderful dinner, everyone had a good 
time, and no one left until after midnight. 

That was our beginning. We had received a marvelously favor- 
able review from Craig Claiborne, the influential food editor of the 
New York Times, and we even appeared on NBC-TV’s morning Today 
show. A few months later, while Public Television was still “Educa- 

















Xili 


tional Television,” our local Boston station decided to enlarge its pro- 


gramming from almost exclusively academic “talking heads” to a more 
diverse menu. They inaugurated an art program and a science pro- 
gram, and I was asked about trying out a cooking session. I had already 
done a book review with them, which involved, besides talk, the then 
highly unusual methods of making a tossed French omelet and the 
beating of egg whites in a big copper bowl. We agreed to try out three 
pilot programs, which appeared in the summer of 1962. 

The station put us in the charge of Russell Morash, then a young 
producer of science programs, now the well-known master of This Old 
House, The Victory Garden, and other successful series. They also gave 
me Ruth Lockwood as associate producer—she had been with the 
Eleanor Roosevelt series. Ruthie and I worked closely together, with 
Paul in attendance, to block out three half-hour shows. They were on 
coq au vin, that famous chicken stew in red wine, see page 263, a non- 
collapsible cheese soufflé, titled as an unmolded soufflé, page 171, and 
French omelets, fully described and illustrated, see page 126. 

The first was shown on a Monday in July, at 8:00 p.m. The 
evening was so hot and humid, and we had no air-conditioning, that 
we set the television out in the garden, turned on a large fan, and 
watched while dining with friends. Our other two shows in succeeding 
weeks gathered an appreciable audience even for that time of year. 
Although Dione Lucas had hosted the first full television cooking 
series, she had been off the air for several seasons, and we had the only 
one at that time. The station asked us if we would do thirteen more—a 
year’s fifty-two weeks, by the way, are divided into four thirteen-week 
sessions. We agreed, and The French Chef was launched, following the 
general ideas in this book. 

Why The French Chef, since I am neither the one nor the other? 
The first reason was that I always hoped we would have some real 
French chefs on the shows. We never managed that until later on. The 
second and more important reason: The title was short, it described the 
shows as real French cooking, and, of equal significance, it fit on a sin- 
gle line in the TV guides. It seemed that a goodly number of people 
wanted to know about la cuisine française, and it was an almost imme- 
diate success. At first we were on only in the Boston area, then Pitts- 
burgh took us up, then San Francisco, finally New York—and I felt we 


w y 




















XIV 








were made! WGBH-Boston asked us to do thirteen more, we contin- 
ued on, and the television shows certainly helped the book. We even 
made the cover of Time magazine at oné point. 

This fortieth anniversary edition is essentially the same book that 
first came out in 1961, which was reedited in 1983 to bring it up to 
date, especially because the food processor had appeared in American 
kitchens. Before the arrival of that incomparable machine, we did have 
the electric blender and heavy duty mixer, but the food processor revo- 
lutionized many otherwise almost hopelessly onerous tasks such as the 
making of fish mousses and quenelles. It simplified such often tricky 
procedures as pie doughs, and made fast work of routine dog work like 
mushroom dicing, cheese grating, bread crumbing, and onion slicing. 

Mastering the Art of French Cooking is just what the title says. It is 
how to produce really wonderful food—food that tastes good, looks 
good, and is a delight to eat. That doesn’t mean it has to be fancy cook- 
ing, although it can be as elaborate as you wish. It simply means careful 
cooking, la cuisine soignée, by people who know what they are doing. 
According to me, if you are thoroughly skilled in French techniques, 
because the repertoire is so vast, you have the background for almost 
any type of cuisine. In other words, and at the risk of creating mayhem 
in some circles, I think you are better as an Italian, Mexican, or even 
Chinese cook when you have a solid French foundation. 

There is certainly nothing particularly difficult about the basics. It 
is a question of getting started, and of learning how to pick the best and 
freshest ingredients, and of knowing, reading, seeing, or being shown 
how to hold the knife, chop the onion, peel the asparagus, make the 
butter and flour roux, and above all of taking it seriously. If you are not 
used to slicing potatoes by hand or peeling, seeding, and juicing toma- 
toes you will be slow and a little clumsy at first. However, once you 
decide you are really going to do it right, you will find that with sur- 
prisingly little practice you are mastering the techniques. 

The recipes here are thoroughly detailed since this is a teaching 
book. How about eight pages on making a simple omelet? You’ve got 
all the directions and if you can read, you can cook. You are learning 
by doing, and if the dish is to turn out as it should, no essential direc- 
tion can be left out. How far, for instance, should the chicken be from 
the heat element when you are broiling it? Five to six inches. Or how 
fast should the oil be beaten in when you are making the garlic-and- 











XV 

















LE. 


mustard coating for a roast leg of lamb? Drop by drop. Every detail 
takes up space, making some actually quite simple recipes look long. 

Certainly one of the important requirements for learning how to 
cook is that you also learn how to eat. If you don’t know how an espe- 
cially fine dish is supposed to taste, how can you produce it? Just like 
becoming an expert in wine—you learn by drinking it, the best you can 
afford—you learn about great food by finding the best there is, 
whether simple or luxurious. Then you savor it, analyze it, and discuss 
it with your companions, and you compare it with other experiences. 

In the 1950s, when this book was conceived, and on into the 1980s, 
we in this country pretty well ate as we liked with little or no attention 
paid to lashings of the best butter and the heaviest cream. You will note 
this indulgence here, especially in sauces, where you reduce them with 
cream or where you swirl in fresh butter a generous tablespoon at a 
time to render them smooth, shining, and luscious. I have not changed 
any of these original proportions or directions, because this is the way 
the dishes were conceived. However, do use your own judgment as 
to how much or how little of the enrichments you care to use, since 
the amounts will not interfere with the basic recipe. In my case, for 
instance, I have been known to substitute a modest teaspoon for the 
generous tablespoon. 

Finally, I do think the way to a full and healthy life is to adopt 
the sensible system of “small helpings, no seconds, no snacking, and 
a little bit of everything.” Above all—have a good time! 

What a happy task you have set for yourself! The pleasures of the 
table are infinite. Toujours bon appétit! 


THE STORY OF “MASTERING” AT KNOPF 
by Judith Jones 


Ix June oF 1960 a hefty manuscript—a treatise on French 
cooking by an American woman, Julia Child, and two French 
ladies, Simone Beck and Louisette Bertholle—landed on my desk. I 
had been an editor at Knopf for about three years, working prima- 
rily on translations of French books. But it was no secret that I had a 
passion for French cooking, so I was the logical person to read it. 

The manuscript had been sent down from Cambridge by Avis 








XVI 








de Voto, who worked as a scout for the Knopfs. She was the wife of LL 
the historian and writer Bernard de Voto, who had had a lively 
transatlantic correspondence with Julia on the subject of knives as a 
result of a piece he had done in The Atlantic Monthly. Avis soon 
became involved when she heard that Julia was working on a cook- 
book in Paris with Mesdames Beck and Bertholle, and she offered to 
try to find an American publisher. Her first submission met rejec- 
tion, the publisher’s comment being, Why would any American 
want to know this much about French cooking? 

Well, it so happened that I did. As I turned the pages of this 
manuscript, I felt that my prayers had been answered. I had lived in 
Paris for three and a half years—at just about the same time the 
Childs were there, although our paths had never crossed—and most 
of what I learned then about cooking I absorbed from the butcher, 
the baker, the greengrocer, and the fishmonger. I would ask ques- 
tions of them all, and then back in my tiny kitchen I would try to 
remember what the butcher’s wife had told me about making frites 
or the poissoniére about sautéing a dorade. 

When I returned to the States, I realized how totally inade- 
quate the few books that dealt with French food really were. They 
were simply compendiums of shorthand recipes and there was no 
effort to instruct the home cook. Techniques were not explained, 
proper ingredients were not discussed, and there was no indication 
in a recipe of what to expect and how to rectify mistakes. So the 
home cook, particularly an American home cook, was flying blind. 

Yet here were all the answers. I pored over the recipe, for 
instance, for a beef stew and learned the right cuts of meat for brais- 
ing, the correct fat to use (one that would not burn), the impor- 
tance of drying the meat and browning it in batches, the secret 
of the herb bouquet, the value of sautéing the garnish of onions 
and mushrooms separately. I ran home to make the recipe—and my 
first bite told me that I had finally produced an authentic French 
boeuf bourguignon—as good as one I could get in Paris. This, I was 
convinced, was a revolutionary cookbook, and if I was so smitten, 
certainly others would be. 

Below is the report I wrote at the time on “The French Cook- 
book,” which I hoped would convince the Knopfs that this book 


would be a credit to their imprint. I also enlisted the help of a senior 








XVII 

















colleague, Angus Cameron. He had been an editor at Bobbs-Merrill 
when Joy of Cooking was published and he lovéd to say that he had 
enough larceny in his soul to know just how to pitch a book. So 
his report, l’m convinced, did the trick (also included is his final 
paragraph). 

The rest is history. In the fall of 1961 we published Mastering 
the Art of French Cooking (incidentally, Alfred Knopf, when I told 
him the title we had settled on, said if anyone would buy a book by 
that title, he would eat his hat), and after Craig Claiborne pro- 
nounced the book a classic, the book went into a second printing 
before Christmas. Of course, when Julia went on television the fol- 
lowing summer as the French Chef all of America fell in love with 
her. But everything she taught on camera was grounded in this sem- 
inal book—understand what you are cooking, do it with care, use 
the right ingredients and the proper equipment, and, above all, 
enjoy yourself. 


My Report on French Cookbook by Julia Child, 
Simone Beck, and Louisette Bertholle 


I’ve had this French cookbook for Americans for almost two months 
now, have read it through, tried innumerable recipes, some simple and 
some challenging, and I think it’s not only first-rate but unique. I don’t 
know of another book that succeeds so well in defining and translating 
for Americans the secrets of French cuisine. The reason? Because the 
authors emphasize technique—not the number of recipes they can 
cram into a volume, nor the exotic nature of the dishes. Reading and 
studying this book seems to me as good as taking a basic course at the 
Cordon Bleu. Actually it’s better than that because the authors’ whole 
focus is on how to translate the tricks learned to the problems that con- 
front you at home (i.e., the differences in meat cuts, utensils, materi- 
als). It is not a book for the lazy but for the cook who wants to 
improve, to take that giant step from fair-to-good accomplishment to 
that subtle perfection that makes French cooking an art. I swear that I 
learned something from this manuscript every few pages. 

As to recipes, they have very intelligently selected the dishes that 
are really the backbone of the classic cuisine. (Attached is the table of 
contents.) The approach is to introduce the general subject first: what 
to look for in buying, best utensil to use, timing, testing for doneness, 
tricks to improve. Then there is usually a master recipe, presented in 
painstaking detail, followed by variations, different choices of sauces 
for embellishing the same dish. There is a good deal of text devoted 
not to cuisine lore but to practical detail; you are seldom directed to 





E 











XVIII 








do something without being told why. The authors are perfection- 
ists, opinionated, and culinary snobs in the best sense—that is, they 
ail approve of a frozen short cut, when. time demands it, but they 
tell you how to add some tastiness to the packaged good. They 
also give of themselves; their dos and don’ts are not arbitrary but 
they stress that their method is one that at. have arrived at through 
experimentation. 

Finally, I do not believe that this book will in any way hurt oth- 
ers, such as Donon’s Classic French Cuisine, on our list. The fact is that 
it enhances other French cookery books because one can apply tech- 
niques learned in it in order to use effectively the recipes offered so 
sketchily, by comparison, in all the other books, and it should be so 
promoted. I think this book will become a classic. 


From Angus Cameron's Report 


This manuscript is an astonishing achievement and there is simply 
nothing like it. Cooks will know this by word of mouth very soon, I’m 
sure. I think we should have this confidence and venture it with the 
knowledge that others will have to look to their laurels when this one 
is available. 


THE RECEPTION OF THE BOOK IN 1961 


“Probably the most comprehensive, laudable, and monumental work 
on [French cuisine] was published this week, and it will probably 
remain as the definitive work for nonprofessionals . . . [It is] a master- 
piece. 

— Craig Claiborne’s review in the New York 
Times when Mastering the Art of French Cooking 
was first published on October 16, 1961 


“T only wish that I had written it myself.” 
—James Beard 


THE INFLUENCE OF “MASTERING” 
OVER THE LAST FORTY YEARS 


“Julia Child paved the way for Chez Panisse and so many others by 
demystifying French food and by reconnecting pleasure and delight with 
cooking and eating at the table. She brought forth a culture of American 
ingredients and gave us all the confidence to cook with them in the pur- 
suit of flavor.” 

—Alice Waters, Chez Panisse 














X1X 





ol 








a: 


“Its hard to believe that forty years have passed since wonderful Julia 
freed the American public from their fears of cookiñg French. By doing 
so, she greatly expanded the audience for all serious food writers. Her 
demystification prepared that public for the rest of us. I believe that the 
television shows based on that landmark book did even more to encour- 
age reluctant cooks to try their hands . . . much to our benefit.” 


—DMimi Sheraton 


“Julia Child was the opposite of the mid-western, mid-American, mid- 
century, middlebrow food I grew up on. She was also the antithesis of 
the women I saw cooking, all of whom had serious June Lockhart 
aspirations. Julia, on the other hand, turned imperfection into a hoot 
and a holler. She seemed to teach cooking, but she was really celebrat- 
ing the human, with all its flaws and appetites. I was a goner the first 
time I heard her voice, which happened to be while I was a cook in a 
feminist restaurant that served nonviolent cuisine. If it weren’t for 
Julia Child, I might never have moved past brown rice and tofu. 
Worse, I might still be afraid of being less than perfect. Cooking 
through Mastering the Art of French Cooking, I learned how to cook 
without fear because I got over fearing failure. Julia Child gave an 
entire generation this gift—and dinner, too.” 


—Molly O’Neill 





“The more I have come to know Julia over the years, the more I realize 
that Julia, the friend, the author, the TV superstar, are one and the 
same. Mastering the Art of French Cooking was one of the most influen- 
tial books in twentieth-century America. It was the book, more than 
any other, that, combined with her television shows, taught Ameri- 
cans how to cook simple and not-so-simple classic French dishes. Like 
Julia herself, the book is a classic, a catalyst in the refinement of Amer- 
ican culture. My own copy of Volume One (a 1975 edition) is so worn 
that the duct tape holding it together looks natural. Although this 
book wasn’t intended for professionals, I knew a few young American 
chefs who, like me, referred to it often because Julia was a trusted 
secret mentor, and her recipes were clear-cut and dependable. They 
still are.” 





—Jasper White, Summer Shack 


“The recipes in Mastering the Art of French Cooking are classics—dishes 
that taste so good because the ingredients work together with no need 
for gimmicks. Julia’s opening sentence in the foreword to the ’83 edi- 
tion couldn’t be more true: “This is a book for the American cook who 
can be unconcerned on occasion with budgets, waistlines, time sched- 
ules . . . or anything else which might interfere with the enjoyment of 
something wonderful to eat [emphasis mine].’ 








XX 





GE 





T 


I remember the excitement and pride I felt when I first served 
Julia’s Veal Orloff. The Soubise, on its own, that glorious mixture of 
melting onion and rice, has never left my repertoire. But mostly my 
old Volume One wears its badge of use with all those errant chocolate 
fingerprints wandering across its torn cover as I make Julia’s Le Mar- 
quis or Soufflé au Chocolat. 

This book will teach you to cook, show you How and tell you 
Why!” 

—Lydia Shire, Biba 


“I remember it was in the early 1970s when I first began to pour 
through Mastering the Art of French Cooking. I was in heaven. All this 
technique that I knew nothing about all laid out in English! It was all 
very meticulous and the descriptions were so detailed and that’s just 
what I needed because I had no experience as a cook. I told my mother 
what I was reading and she said, ‘Oh that crazy woman? She’s way too 
complicated for me and the way I cook.’ I never listened much to my 
mother back then and just kept on reading. Today, JULIA, as I call it, 
remains the book I turn to when I need to know how to do some- 
thing.” 

—Gordon Hamersley, Hamersley’s Bistro 


“Long before there was a TV Food Network or Celebrity Chefs, there 
was Julia Child. The first cookbook my mother purchased for our home 
was Mastering the Art of French Cooking. It was this book, along with 
Julia’s first television series and her obvious joy for cooking, that helped 
influence me to enter the culinary field. Always warm and gracious, still 
working hard sharing her knowledge and love of life, Julia continues to 
be an inspiration to all who are privileged to know her and choose to be 
part of this profession. She is and will always be the ‘Grand Lady of 
Cooking.’ Thank you, Julia, for your encouragement and friendship.” 


—David Cecchini, Wine Cask 


“Mastering the Art of French Cooking was one of my first introductions 
to my foundation of understanding the art of French cooking. The 
combination of reading Julia’s book, working in the kitchen, and 
watching her television shows helped lead me to my beginnings in 
serious cuisine. Julia is a dear friend and a great cook—the grande 
dame of cooking, who has touched all of our lives with her immense 
respect and appreciation of cuisine.” 


a 


—Emeril Lagasse, Emeril’s Restaurant 


“Julia has slowly but surely altered our way of thinking about food. 
She has taken the fear out of the term ‘haute cuisine.’ She has 














ee 











increased gastronomic awareness a thousandfold by stressing the 
importance of good foundation and technique, and she has elevated 
our consciousness to the refined pleasures of dining. Through the 
years her shows have kept me in rapt attention, and her humor has 
kept me in stitches. 

She is a national treasure, a culinary trendsetter, and a born educa- 


tor beloved by all.” 
—Thomas Keller, The French Laundry 


“1961 was the year that gave us three important and enjoyable events: 

= Picasso painted his Szil! Life with a Lamp; 

a Breakfast at Tiffanys had its premier with Audrey Hepburn; 

= Mastering the Art of French Cooking was published by Knopf, 

starring our very own Julia Child. 

Trying to avoid the current fashion for exaggeration, let me just say that 
this volume not only clarified what real French food is, but simply taught 
us to cook.” 


—George Lang, Café des Artistes 


“1961 a.D. Julia Child’s Mastering the Art of French Cooking is published. 
Her black-and-white TV show on WGBH in Boston soon follows. 
Child is one of the great teachers of the millennium: She is intelligent 
and charismatic, and her undistinguished manual skills are not daunt- 
ing to her viewers. An entire generation of ambitious American home 
cooks is instantly born.” 


—Jeffrey Steingarten, conferring the Vogue Millennial 
Food and Drink Awards on “those events and persons who 
have most advanced the joys and beauties of mealtime 
over the previous thousand years” 





XXi 





FOREWORD | 
TO THE 
1983 EDITION 


Le FIRST EDITION of Mastering was conceived and written in the late 
1950s, and many changes, particularly in kitchen equipment, have taken place 
since then. Probably the most significant has been the appearance of the elec- 
tric food processor, which has made amazingly light work out of many for- 
merly long and arduous cooking procedures like the mincing of mushrooms 
and onions, the slicing of potatoes, the making of mayonnaise, pie doughs, 
many yeast doughs, as well as purées and mousses. We have redone numerous 
recipes here to include the processor, but had it been around when we began, 
we would have had a host of dishes created because of it. No-stick pans were 
not available then. All-purpose flour needed sifting, and that required a cum- 
bersome measuring system, which we have eliminated here. Chocolate has 
changed character, and that gave rise to a different melting technique as well 
as a new chocolate soufflé recipe. Rice is now enriched and takes shorter cook- 
ing, and we have revised a number of meat-thermometer readings. Little de- 
tails here and there wanted fixing, little remarks now and then needed up- 
dating, and a few drawings have been added or improved. 

On the whole, however, it is the same book, written for those who love 
to cook—it is a primer of classical French cuisine. And no wonder that cuisine 
has always been and will always remain so popular, said a friend of ours; it 
just makes such wonderfully good eating! 


S. B. and J. C. 


i 


Bramafam and Santa Barbara 
February 1983 


+ 


Ey 


wy 


FOREWORD 


Jis IS A BOOK for the servantless American cook who can be uncon- 
cerned on occasion with budgets, waistlines, time schedules, children’s meals, 
the parent-chauffeur-den-mother syndrome, or anything else which might 
interfere with the enjoyment of producing something wonderful to eat. Writ- 
ten for those who love to cook, the recipes are as detailed as we have felt they 
should be so the reader will know exactly what is involved and how to go about 
it. This makes them a bit longer than usual, and some of the recipes are quite 
long indeed. No out-of-the-ordinary ingredients are called for. In fact the book 
could well be titled “French Cooking from the American Supermarket,” 
for the excellence of French cooking, and of good cooking in general, is due 
more to cooking techniques than to anything else. And these techniques can- 
be applied wherever good basic materials are available. We have purposely 
omitted cobwebbed bottles, the patron in his white cap bustling among his 
sauces, anecdotes about charming little restaurants with gleaming napery, and 
so forth. Such romantic interludes, it seems to us, put French cooking into a 
never-never land instead of the Here, where happily it is available to every- 
body. Anyone can cook in the French manner anywhere, with the right in- 
struction. Our hope is that this book will be helpful in giving that instruction. 

Cooking techniques include such fundamentals as how to sauté a piece of 
meat so that it browns without losing its juices, how to fold beaten egg whites 
into a cake batter to retain their maximum volume, how to add egg yolks to 
a hot sauce so they will not curdle, where to put the tart in the oven so it will 
puff and brown, and how to chop an onion quickly. Although you will per- 
form with different ingredients for different dishes, the same general proc- 
esses are repeated over and over again. As you enlarge your repertoire, you 
will find that the seemingly endless babble of recipes begins to fall rather neatly 
iuo groups of theme and variations; that homard à l'américaine has many 


technical aspects in common with coq au vin, that cog au vin in turn is almost 


XXIV FOREWORD 


identical in technique to boeuf bourguignon; all of them are types of fricas- 
sees, so follow the fricassee pattern. In the sauce realm, the cream and egg-yolk 
sauce for a blanquette of veal is the same type as that for a sole in white-wine 
sauce, or for a gratin of scallops. Eventually you will rarely need recipes at all, 
except as reminders of ingredients you may have forgotten. 

All of the techniques employed in French cooking are aimed at one goal: 
how does it taste? The French are seldom interested in unusual combinations 
or surprise presentations. With an enormous background of traditional dishes 
to choose from (1000 Ways to Prepare and Serve Eggs is the title of one French 
book on the subject) the Frenchman takes his greatest pleasure from a well- 
known dish impeccably cooked and served. A perfect navarin of lamb, for 
instance, requires a number of operations including brownings, simmerings, 
strainings, skimmings, and flavorings. Each of the several steps in the process, 
though simple to accomplish, plays a critical role, and if any is eliminated or 
combined with another, the texture and taste of the navarin suffer. One of 
the main reasons that pseudo-French cooking, with which we are all too famil- 
iar, falls far below good French cooking is just this matter of elimination of 
steps, combination of processes, or skimping on ingredients such as butter, 
cream—and time. “Too much trouble,” “Too expensive,” or “Who will know 
the difference” are death knells for good food. 

Cooking is not a particularly difficult art, and the more you cook and 
learn about cooking, the more sense it makes. But like any art it requires prac- 
tice and experience. The most important ingredient you can bring to it is love 
of cooking for its own sake. 


SCOPE 

A complete treatise on French cooking following the detailed method 
we have adopted would be about the size of an unabridged dictionary; even 
printed on Bible paper, it would have to be placed on a stand. To produce a 
book of convenient size, we have made an arbitrary selection of recipes that we 
particularly like, and which we hope will interest our readers. Many splendid 
creations are not included, and there are tremendous omissions. One may well 
ask: “Why is there no péte feuilletée? Where are the croissants?” These are 
the kinds of recipes, in our opinion, which should be demonstrated in the 
kitchen, as each requires a sense of touch which can only be learned through 
personal practice and observation. Why only five cakes and no petits fours? No. 
boiled, soufféed, or mashed potatoes? No zucchini? No tripe? No poulet àla 
Marengo? No green salads? No pressed duck or sauce rouennaise? No room! 


FOREWORD XXV 


A NOTE ON THE RECIPES 

All of the master recipes and most of the subrecipes in this book are in 
two-column form. On the left are the ingredients, often including some special 
piece of equipment needed; on the right is a paragraph of instruction. Thus 
what to cook and how to cook it, at each step in the proceedings, are always 
brought together in one sweep of the eye. Master recipes are headed in large, 
bold type; a special sign, *, precedes those which are followed by variations. 
Most of the recipes contain this sign, (*), in the body of the text, indicating up 
to what point a dish may be prepared in advance. Wine and vegetable sugges- 
tions are included with all master recipes for main-course dishes. 

Our primary purpose in this book is to teach you how to cook, so that 
you will understand the fundamental techniques and gradually be able to 
divorce yourself from a dercndence on recipes. We have therefore divided each 
category of food into related groups or sections, and each recipe in one section 
belongs to one family of techniques. Fish filets poached in white wine, starting 
on page 208, are a good example, or the chicken fricassees starting on page 
258, or the group of quiches on pages 146 to 153. It is our hope that you will 
read the introductory pages preceding each chapter and section before you 
start in on a recipe, as you will then understand what we are about. For the 
casual reader, we have tried to make every recipe stand on its own. Cross ref- 
erences are always a problem. If there are not enough, you may miss an im- 
portant point, and if there are too many you will become enraged. Yet if every 
technique is explained every time it comes up, a short recipe is long, and a 
long one forbidding. 


QUANTITIES 

Most of the recipes in this book are calculated to serve six people with 
reasonably good appetites in an American-style menu of three courses. The 
amounts called for are generally twice what would be considered sufficient 
for a typical French menu comprising hors d’oeuvre, soup, main course, salad, 
cheese, and dessert. We hope that we have arrived at quantities which will be 
correct for most of our readers. If a recipe states that the ingredients listed will 
serve 4 to 6 people, this means the dish should be sufficient for 4 people if the 
rest of your menu is small, and for 6 if it is large. 


SOME WORDS OF ADVICE 
Our years of teaching cookery have impressed upon us the fact that all 
too often a debutant cook will start in enthusiastically on a new dish without 


XXV1 FOREWORD 


ever reading the recipe first. Suddenly an ingredient, or a process, or a time 
sequence will turn up, and there is astonishment, frustration, and even disaster. 
We therefore urge you, however much you have cooked, always to read the 
recipe first, even if the dish is familiar to you. Visualize each step so you will 
know exactly what techniques, ingredients, time, and equipment are required 
and you will encounter no surprises. Recipe language is always a sort of short- 
hand in which a lot of information is packed} and you will have to read care- 
fully if you are not to miss small but important points. Then, to build up your 
over-all knowledge of cooking, compare the recipe mentally to others you are 
familiar with, and note where one recipe or technique fits into the larger pic- 
ture of theme and variations. 

We have not given estimates for the time of preparation, as some people 
take half an hour to slice three pounds of mushrooms while others take five 
minutes. 

Pay close attention to what you are doing while you work, for precision 
in small details can make the difference between passable cooking and fine 
food. If a recipe says, “cover casserole and regulate heat so liquid simmers 
very slowly,” “heat the butter until its foam begins to subside,” or “beat the 
hot sauce into the egg yolks by driblets,” follow it. You may be slow and clumsy 
at first, but with practice you will pick up speed and style. 

Allow yourself plenty of time. Most dishes can be assembled, or started, 
or partially cooked in advance. If you are not an old campaigner, do not plan 
more than one long or complicated recipe for a meal or you will wear yourself 
out and derive no pleasure from your efforts. 

If food is to be baked or broiled, be sure your oven is hot before the dish 
goes in. Otherwise soufflés will not rise, piecrusts will collapse, and gratinéed 
dishes will overcook before they brown. 

A pot saver is a self-hampering cook. Use all the pans, bowls, and equip- 
ment you need, but soak them in water as soon as you are through with them. 
Clean up after yourself frequently to avoid confusion. 

Train yourself to use your hands and fingers; they are wonderful instru- 
ments. Train yourself also to handle hot foods; this will save time. Keep your 
knives sharp. 


z 


Above all, have a good time. 
S. By L. Bi J-C 


July 1961 


Acknowledgments 


Our FRIENDS, students, families, and husbands who have gracefully and often 
courageously acted as guinea pigs for years are owed a special thank you from the 
authors. But there are others toward whom we feel particular gratitude because of 
help of a different kind. The Agricultural Research Service of the U.S. Department 
of Agriculture has been one of our greatest sources of assistance and has unfailingly 
and generously answered all sorts of technical questions ranging from food to plastic 
bowls. The Meat Institute of Chicago, the National Livestock and Meat Board, and 
the Poultry and Egg National Board have answered floods of inquiries with prompt 
and precise information. Wonderfully helpful also have been the Fish and Wildlife 
Service of the Department of the Interior, and the California Department of Fish 
and Game. Sessions with L’Ecole Professionelle de la Boucherie de Paris and with 
the Office Scientifique et Technique de la Péche Maritime have been invaluable in 
our research on French meat cuts and French fish. During our years of practical 
kitchen-training in Paris, Chef de Cuisine Max Bugnard and Chef Pdtisster Claude 
Thillmont have been our beloved teachers. More recently we have also had the good 
fortune to work with Mme Aimée Cassiot, whose long years as a professional cordon 
bleu in Paris have given her a vast store of working knowledge which she has will- 
ingly shared with us. We are also greatly indebted to Le Cercle des Gourmettes 
whose bi-monthly cooking sessions in Paris have often been our proving grounds, 
and whose culinary ideas we have freely used. We give heartfelt thanks to our editors 
whose enthusiasm and hard work transformed our manuscript-in-search-of-a-pub- 
lisher into this book. Finally there is Avis DeVoto, our foster mother, wet nurse, 
guide, and mentor. She provided encouragement for our first steps, some ten years 
ago, as we came tottering out of the kitchen with the gleam of authorship lighting 


our innocent faces. 


à] OA Wu: 


is 
yor L'URSS 


FAT 


aR m HE 





#4 | 


KITCHEN EQUIPMENT 3 
DEFINITIONS II 
INGREDIENTS 15 
MEASURES | 20 
TEMPERATURES 24 
CUTTING: Chopping, Slicing, Dicing, and Mincing 26 
WINES 31 
CHAPTER I-SOUPS 37 
CHAPTER II -SAUCES 54 
W hite Sauces 55 
Brown Sauces 66 
Tomato Sauces 76 
The Hollandaise Family 79 
The Mayonnaise Family 86 
Vinaigrettes 94 
Hot Butter Sauces 96 
Cold Flavored Butters 99 
List of Miscellaneous Sauces 105 
Stocks and Aspics 106 
CHAPTER III- EGGS 116 
Poached Eggs 116 
Shirred Eggs 190 


Eggs in Ramekins 123 


XXX CONTENTS 


Scrambled Eggs 


Omelettes 


CHAPTER IV -ENTRÉES AND LUNCHEON be 
Pie Dough and Pastry Shells : 
Quiches, Tarts, and Gratins 
Soufflés and Timbales ` 
Pâte à Choux, Puffs, Gnocchi, and Gt 
Crêpes 
Cocktail Appetizers 


CHAPTER V - FISH 
Fish Filets Poached in White Wine 
Two Recipes from Provence 
Two Famous Lobster Dishes 
Mussels 
List of Other Fish Dishes 


CHAPTER VI-POULTRY 
Roast Chicken 
Casserole-roasted Chicken 
Sautéed Chicken 
Fricasseed Chicken 
Broiled Chicken 
Chicken Breasts 
Duck 
Goose 


CHAPTER VII-MEAT 
Beef 
Lamb and Mutton 
Veal 
Pork 
Ham 
Cassoulet 
Liver 
Sweetbreads 
Brains 


Kidneys 


125 
126 


139 
139 
146 
157 
175 
190 


196 


207 
208 
218 
220 
226 
232 


234 
240 
249 
254 
258 
265 
267 
272 
282 


288 
288 
328 
350 
375 
389 
399 
405 
409 
413, 
416 


CONTENTS XXXI 


CHAPTER VIII - VEGETABLES 421 
Green Vegetables | s 423 
Carrots, Onions, and Turnips a 476 
Lettuce, Celery, Endive, and Leeks 489 
The Cabbage Family 496 
Cucumbers 499 
Eggplant | 501 
Tomatoes 505 
Mushrooms | 508 
Chestnuts 517 
Potatoes 520 
Rice 528 

CHAPTER IX -COLD BUFFET 536 
Cold Vegetables 536 
Composed Salads 541 
Aspics 544 
Molded Mousses 558 
Pâtés and Terrines 564 
List of Other Cold Dishes 576 

CHAPTER X - DESSERTS AND CAKES 579 
Fundamentals 579 
Sweet Sauces and Fillings 588 
Custards, Mousses, and Molded Desserts 594 
Sweet Soufflés 613 
Fruit Desserts 623 
Tarts 632 
Crêpes 648 
Clafoutis 655 
Babas and Savarins 658 
Ladyfingers 665 
Cakes 667 


INDEX follows page 684 


Illustrations 


Kitchen Equipment 

How to Measure Flour 

How to Use a Knife: Chopping, Slicing, Dicing, and Mincing 
Two Omelette-making Methods 

How to Make Pastry Dough and Pastry Shells 

How to Beat Egg Whites 

How to Fold Beaten Egg Whites into a Soufflé Mixture 
Soufflé Molds 

Puff Shells 

Forming Quenelles 

Making Crépes 

How to Truss a Chicken 

Chicken on a Spit 

Filet of Beef 

The Bone Structure of a Leg of Lamb 

How to Prepare Whole Artichokes 

How to Prepare Artichoke Hearts 

How to Prepare Fresh Asparagus 

How to Peel, Seed, and Juice Tomatoes 

How to Mince, Slice, Quarter, and Flute Mushrooms 
How to Bake a Stuffed, Boned Duck in a Pastry Crust 
How to Line a Dessert Mold with Ladyfingers 
Decorative Designs for Fruit Tarts 

Baba Mold 

Savarin Molds 

How to Ice a Cake 


5-10 

17 
26-30 
128-135 
141-145 
159-160 
161 

162 
177-179 
187 

192 
237-239 
242 
290-291 
329 
423-424 
429-430 
436 
505-506 
509-511 
569-575 
585-586 
636, 640, 642 
660 

662 


673-675 


nA 


Mastering the Art of 
FRENCH COOKING 


Volume One 


UPDATED 


BY JULIA CHILD 
LOUISETTE BERTHOLLE 
SIMONE BECK 


vI 
d a 


NEW YORK 
Alfred : A : Knopf 


7, 10) O I 


Ci 


Tris syMBOL preceding a recipe title indicates that 
variations follow. 


WHEREVER you see this symbol in the body of\recipe 
texts you may prepare the dish ahead of time/up to 
that point, then complete the recipe later. 


KITCHEN EQUIPMENT 


Batterie de Cuisine 


| Le A GooD cook should be able to perform under any cir- 
cumstances, but cooking is much easier, pleasanter, and more efficient if you 
have the right tools. Good equipment which will last for years does not seem 
outrageously expensive when you realize that a big, enameled-iron casserole 
costs no more than a 6-rib roast, that a large enameled skillet can be bought for 
the price of a leg of lamb, and that a fine paring knife may cost less than two 
small lamb chops. One of the best places to shop for reasonably priced kitchen- 
ware is in a hotel- and restaurant-supply house where objects are sturdy, pro- 
fessional, and made for hard use. 


STOVES AND OVENS 


For top-of-stove cooking you want to switch from very high indeed to 
very low heat with gradations in between, which a restaurant gas range can 
provide if you have the space and gas pressure for one. Otherwise a good mod- 
ern electric cooktop is far better than weak domestic gas burners. 

Electric ovens give more even heat for pastry baking (especially me- 
ringues) than gas, which has surges of heat. Gas is desirable for broiling, but 
electricity does well especially if you have a rheostat heat control setting. One 
of each is ideal! 

POTS, PANS, AND CASSEROLES 


Pots, pans, and casseroles should be heavy-bottomed so they will not tip 
over, and good heat conductors so that foods will not stick and scorch. With 
the exception of heavy tin-lined copper (expensive to maintain), enameled 
iron or stainless-steel-lined heavy aluminum is our choice. The smooth surface 


4 KITCHEN EQUIPMENT 


does not discolor foods, and it is easy to clean. Stainless steel with a wash of cop- 
per on the bottom for looks is a poor heat conductor—the copper bottom should 
be 4 inch thick to be of any value. Stainless steel with a cast aluminum bottom, 
on the other hand, is good, as the thick aluminum spreads the heat. Glazed 
earthenware is all right as long as it has not developed cracks where old cooking 
grease collects and exudes whenever foods are cooked in it. Pyrex and heat- 
proof porcelain are fine but fragile. Thick aluminum and iron, though good 
heat conductors, will discolor foods containing white wine or egg yolks. Be- 
cause of the discoloration problem, we shall specify an enameled saucepan in 
some recipes to indicate that any nonstaining material is to be used, from en- 
amel to stainless steel, lined copper, pyrex, glazed pottery, or porcelain. 


A Note on Copper Pots 


Copper pots are the most satisfactory of all to cook in, as they hold and spread the 
heat well, and their tin lining does not discolor foods. A great many tourist or 
decorative types are currently sold; these are thin and glittering, and have shiny brass 
handles. To get the full benefit out of cooking in copper, the metal must be 4% inch 
thick, and the handle should be of heavy iron. The interior of the pot is lined with 
a wash of tin, which must be renewed every several years when it wears off and the 
copper begins to show through. A copper pot can still be used when this happens if 
it is scrubbed just before you cook with it, and if the food is removed as soon as it 
is done. If cooked food remains in a poorly lined pot, some kind of a toxic chemical 
reaction can take place. It is thus best to have the pot re-tinned promptly. 

In addition to re-tinning, there is the cleaning problem, as copper tarnishes 
quickly. There are fast modern copper cleaners available. A good homemade mixture 
is half a cup of white vinegar, and 4 cup each of table salt and scouring powder. 
Rub the mixture over the copper, using steel wool if the pot is badly tarnished, then 
rinse in hot water. The tin lining is cleaned with steel wool and scouring powder, 
but do not expect it ever to glitter brightly again once you have used the pot for 
cooking. (All cleaning, alas, removes infinitesimal bits of the tin lining.) 

Never let a copper pot sit empty over heat, or the tin lining will melt. For the 
same reason, watch your heat when browning meats in copper. If the tin begins to 
glisten brightly in places, lower your heat. 


No-stick Pots and Pans 


Since our first edition, pans with no-stick surfaces’have appeared everywhere, and 
modern improvements have made their surfaces increasingly more resistant. We are 
enthusiastic about no-stick cookie sheets, cake pans, muffin tins, and especially no-stick 
frying pans. What a particular blessing they are for omelettes, sautéed potatoes, and, 
hash. Treat no-stick surfaces with care, however: use wooden or plastic utensils, hide 
your pans from kooks and non-cooks, and don’ t expect the surface to last forever. 


KITCHEN EQUIPMENT 5 


Any of the following items come in enameled cast tron: 


Oval Casseroles 





Oval casseroles are more practical than round ones as they can hold a 
chicken or a roast of meat as well as a stew or a soup. A good pair would be 
the 2-quart size about 6 by 8 inches across and 3!4 inches high; and a 7- to 
8-quart size about 9 by 12 inches across and 6 inches high. 


Baking Dishes 





Round and oval baking dishes can be used for roasting chicken, duck, or 
meats, or can double as gratin dishes. 





Saucepans 





Saucepans in a range of sizes are essential. One with a metal handle can 
also be set in the oven. 


Sa M 


6 KITCHEN EQUIPMENT 


Chefs Skillet and 


Sauté Pan 





A chef’s skillet, poéle, has sloping sides and is used for browning and 
tossing small pieces of food like mushrooms or chicken livers; the long handle 
makes it easy to toss rather than turn the food. A sauté pan, sautoir, has straight 
sides and is used for sautéing small steaks, liver, or veal scallops, or foods like 
chicken that are browned then covered to finish their cooking in the sauté pan. 





Besides the usual array of pots, roasters, vegetable peelers, spoons, and spatu- 
las, here are some useful objects which make cooking easter: 





Knives and 
Sharpening Steel 





A knife should be as sharp as a razor or it mashes and bruises food rather 
than chopping or cutting it. It can be considered sharp if just the weight of it, 
drawn across a tomato, slits the skin. No knife will hold a razor-edge for long. 
The essential point is that it take an edge, and quickly. Plain rustable steel 
is the easiest to sharpen but discoloration is an annoying problem. Good stain- 
less steel knives are available in cookware and cutlery shops, and probably the 
best way to test their quality is to buy a small one and try it out. The French 
chef’s knives, pictured here, are the most useful general-purpose shapes for 
chopping, mincing, and paring. If you cannot find good knives, consult yours, 
butcher or a professionally trained chef. 

Knives should be washed separately and by hand as soon as you have 


KITCHEN EQUIPMENT 7 


finished using them. Tarnished blades are cleaned easily with steel wool and 
scouring powder. A magnetic holder screwed to the wall is a practical way 
of keeping knives always within reach and isolated from other objects that 
could dull and dent the blades by knocking against them. 





Wooden Spatulas 
and Rubber Scrapers 





A wooden spatula is more practical for stirring than a wooden spoon; its 
flat surfaces are easily scraped off on the side of a pan or bowl. You will usu- 
ally find wooden spatulas only at stores specializing in French imports. The 
rubber spatula, which can be bought almost anywhere, is indispensable for 
scraping sauces out of bowls and pans, for stirring, folding, creaming, and 
smearing. 


Wire W hips 
or Whisks 





Wire whips, or whisks, are wonderful for beating eggs, sauces, canned 
soups, and for general mixing. They are easier than the rotary egg beater be- 
cause you use one hand only. Whisks range from minute to gigantic, and the 


8 KITCHEN EQUIPMENT 


best selections are in restaurant-supply houses. You should have several sizes 
including the balloon whip for beating egg whites at the far left; its use is il- 
lustrated on page 159. 


Bulb Baster and 
Poultry Shears 





The bulb baster is particularly good for basting meats or vegetables in a 
casserole, and for degreasing roasts as well as basting them. Some plastic 
models collapse in very hot fat: a metal tube-end is usually more satisfactory. 
Poultry shears are a great help in disjointing broilers and fryers; regular steel 
is more practical than stainless, as the shears can be sharpened more satisfac- 
torily. 





Drum Sieve and Pestle 





The drum sieve, amis, is used in France when one is instructed to force 
food through a sieve. The ingredients, such as pounded lobster shells and but- 
ter, are placed on the screen and rubbed through it with the pestle. An ordi. 
nary sieve placed over a bowl or a food mill can take the place of a ramis. 


eee 


KITCHEN EQUIPMENT 9 


The Vegetable Mill 
(or Food Mill) and 
Garlic Press 





Two wonderful inventions, the vegetable mill and the garlic press. The 
vegetable mill purées soups, sauces, vegetables, fruits, raw fish, or mousse mix- 
tures. The best type has 3 removable disks about 514 inches in diameter, one for 
fine, one for medium, and one for coarse puréeing. The garlic press will purée a 
whole, unpeeled clove of garlic, or pieces of onion. 






The Food Processor 





This marvelous machine came into our kitchens in the mid-seventies— 
fifteen years after the first edition of this book! The processor has revolution- 
ized cooking, making child’s play of some of the most complicated dishes of the 
haute cuisine—mousses in minutes. Besides all kinds of rapid slicing, chopping, 
puréeing, and the like, it makes a fine pie crust dough, mayonnaise, and many 
of the yeast doughs. No serious cook should be without a food processor, espe- 
cially since respectable budget models can be bought very reasonably. 


10 KITCHEN EQUIPMENT 





Mortar and Pestle 





Small mortars of wood or porcelain are useful for grinding herbs, pound- 
ing nuts, and the like. The large mortars are of marble, and are used for pound- 
ing or puréeing shellfish, forcemeats, and so on. The electric blender, meat 
grinder, and food mill take the place of a mortar and pestle in many instances. 








= 


C Ki 





Heavy-Duty Electric i E 


1. Whip, for eggs 

2. Dough Hook 

3. Flat Beater, for 
heavy batters, 
ground meat, etc. 





A heavy-duty electric mixer makes light work of heavy meat mixtures, 
fruit cake batters, and yeast doughs as well as beating egg whites beautifully 
and effortlessly. Its efficient whip not only revolves about itself, but circulates 
around the properly designed bowl, keeping all of the mass of egg whites in 
motion all of the time. Other useful attachments include a meat grinder with 


sausage-stufing horn and a hot-water jack which attaches to the bottom of the 


‘es 


stainless steel bowl. It’s expensive, but solidly built and a life-long aid to any- 
one who does lots of cooking. 


te 


DEFINITIONS 


Wi HAVE TRIED, in this book, to use ordinary American cooking terms 
familiar to anyone who has been around a kitchen, but we list a few definitions 
here to avoid possible misunderstanding. 


BASTE, arroser To spoon melted butter, fat, or liquid over foods. 

BEAT, fouetter To mix foods or liquids thoroughly and vigorously with a spoon, 
fork, or whip, or an electric beater. When you beat, train yourself to use your lower- 
arm and wrist muscles; if you beat from your shoulder you will tire quickly. 
BLANCH, blanchir To plunge food into boiling water and to boil it until it has 
softened, or wilted, or is partially or fully cooked. Food is also blanched to remove too 
strong a taste, such as for cabbage or onions, or for the removal of the salty, smoky 
taste of bacon. 

BLEND, mélanger To mix foods together in a less vigorous way than by beating, 
usually with a fork, spoon, or spatula. 

BOIL, bouillir Liquid is technically at the boil when it is seething, rolling, and 
sending up bubbles. But in practice there are slow, medium, and fast boils. A very 
slow boil, when the liquid is hardly moving except for a bubble at one point, is called 
to simmer, mijoter. An even slower boil with no bubble, only the barest movement 
on the surface of the liquid, is called “to shiver,” frémir, and is used for poaching 
fish or other delicate foods. 

BRAISE, braiser To brown foods in fat, then cook them in a covered casserole with 
a small amount of liquid. We have also used the term for vegetables cooked in 
butter in a covered casserole, as there is no English equivalent for étuver. 

COAT A SPOON, napper la cuillère This term is used to indicate the thick- 
ness of a sauce, and it seems the only way to describe it. A spoon dipped into a cream 
soup and withdrawn would be coated with a thin film of soup. Dipped into a sauce 
destined to cover food, the spoon would emerge with a fairly thick coating. 
DEGLAZE, déglacer After meat has been roasted or sautéed, and the pan de- 
greased, liquid is poured into the pan and all the flavorful coagulated cooking juices 


12 DEFINITIONS 


are scraped into it as it simmers. This is an important step in the preparation of all 
meat sauces from the simplest to the most elaborate, for the deglaze becomes part of 
the sauce, incorporating into it some of the flavor of the meat. Thus sauce and meat 
are a logical complement to each other. 


DEGREASE, dégraisser To remove accumulated fat from the surface of hot liquids. 


Sauces, Soups, and Stocks 
To remove accumulated fat from the surface of a sauce, soup, or stock which 
is simmering, use a long-handled spoon and’ draw it over the surface, dipping 
up a thin layer of fat. It is not necessary to remove all the fat at this time. 
When the cooking is done, remove all the fat. If the liquid is still hot, let 
it settle for 5 minutes so the fat will rise to the surface. Then spoon it off, tip- 
ping the pot or kettle so that a heavier fat deposit will collect at one side and can 
more easily be removed. When you have taken up as much as you can—it is 
never a quick process—draw strips of paper towels over the surface until the 
last floating fat globules have been blotted up. 
It is easier, of course, to chill the liquid, for then the fat congeals on the 
surface and can be scraped off. 


Roasts 

To remove fat from a pan while the meat is still roasting, tilt the pan and 
scoop out the fat which collects in the corner. Use a bulb baster or a big spoon. 
It is never necessary to remove all the fat at this time, just the excess. This de- 
greasing should be done quickly, so your oven will not cool. If you take a long 
time over it, add a few extra minutes to your total roasting figure. 

After the roast has been taken from the pan, tilt the pan, then with a 
spoon or a bulb baster remove the fat that collects in one corner, but do not 
take up the browned juices, as these will go into your sauce. Usually a table- 
spoon or two of fat is left in the pan; it will give body and flavor to the sauce. 

Another method—and this can be useful if you have lots of juice—is to 
place a trayful of ice cubes in a sieve lined with 2 or 3 thicknesses of damp 
cheesecloth and set over a saucepan. Pour the fat and juices over the ice cubes; 
most of the fat will collect and congeal on the ice. As some of the ice will melt 
into the saucepan, rapidly boil down the juices to concentrate their flavor. 


Casseroles 


For stews, daubes, and cther foods which cook in a casserole, tip the casserole 
and the fat will collect at one side. Spoon it off, or suck it up with a bulb 
baster. Or strain off all the sauce into a pan, by placing the casserole cover 
askew and holding the casserole in both hands with your thumbs clamped to 
the cover while you pour out the liquid. Then’ degrease the sauce in the pan, 
and return the sauce to the casserole. 


New Edition Note: An efficient degreasing pitcher now exists: pour in the hot meaty... 
juices and let the fat rise to the surface. Pour out clear juices—the spout opening Is 
at the bottom of the pitcher; stop when fat appears in the spout. 


DEFINITIONS 13 


DICE, couper en dés To cut food into cubes the shape of dice, usually about 4% inch 
in size as illustrated on page 29. 


FOLD, incorporer To blend a fragile mixture, such as beaten egg whites, delicately 
into a heavier mixture, such as a soufflé base. This is described and illustrated in 
the Soufflé section on page 161. To fold also means to mix delicately without 
breaking or mashing, such as folding cooked artichoke hearts or brains into a sauce. 


GRATINE To brown the top of a sauced dish, usually under a hot broiler. A 
sprinkling of bread crumbs or grated cheese, and dots of butter, help to form a light 
brown covering (gratin) over the sauce. 


MACERATE, macérer; MARINATE, mariner To place foods in a liquid so they 
will absorb flavor, give off flavor, or become more tender. Macerate is the term 
usually reserved for fruits, such as: cherries macerated in sugar and alcohol. Marinate 
is used for meats: beef marinated in red wine. A marinade is a pickle, brine, or souse, 
or a mixture of wine or vinegar, oil, and condiments. 


MINCE, hacher To chop foods very fine, as illustrated on page 27. 


NAP, napper To cover food with a sauce which is thick enough to adhere, but 
supple enough so that the outlines of the food are preserved. 


POACH, pocher Food submerged and cooked in a liquid that is barely simmering 
or shivering. The term can also be used poetically for such things as “chicken breasts 
poached in butter.” 

PUREE, réduire en purée To render solid foods into a mash, such as applesauce or 
mashed potatoes. This may be done in a mortar, a meat grinder, a food mill, an elec- 
tric blender, or through a sieve. 


REDUCE, réduire To boil down a liquid, reducing it in quantity, and concentrat- 
ing its taste. This is a most important step in saucemaking. 


REFRESH, rafraichir To plunge hot food into cold water in order to cool it quickly 
and stop the cooking process, or to wash it off. 

SAUTE, sauter To cook and brown food in a very small quantity of very hot fat, 
usually in an open skillet. You may sauté food merely to brown it, as you brown 
the beef for a stew. Or you may sauté until the food is cooked through, as for slices of 
liver. Sautéing is one of the most important of the primary cooking techniques, and 
it is often badly done because one of the following points has not been observed: 

1) The sautéing fat must be very hot. almost smoking, before the food goes 
into the pan, otherwise there will be no sealing-in of juices, and no browning. The 
sautéing medium may be fat, oil, or butter and oil. Plain butter cannot be heated 
to the required temperature without burning, so it must either be fortified with oil 
or be clarified—rid of its milky residue as described on page 15. 

2) The food must be absolutely dry. If it is damp, a layer of steam develops 
between the food and the fat preventing the browning and searing process. 

3) The pan must not be crowded. Enough air space must be left between each 
piece of food or it will steam rather than brown, and its juices will escape and burn 


in the pan. 


14 DEFINITIONS 


TOSS, faire sauter Instead of turning food with a spoon or a spatula, you can make 
it flip over by tossing the pan. The classic example is tossing a pancake so it flips over 
in mid-air. But tossing is also a useful technique for cooking vegetables, as a toss is 
often less bruising than a turn. If you are cooking in a covered casserole, grasp it in 
both hands with your thumbs clamped to the cover. Toss the pan with an up-and- 
down, slightly jerky, circular motion. The contents will flip over and change cook- 
ing levels. For an open saucepan use the same movement, holding the handle with 
both hands, thumbs up. A back-and-forth slide is used for-a skillet. Give it a very 
slight upward jerk just as you draw it back toward you. 


INGREDIENTS 


— FOR WINES AND SPIRITS, and possibly foie gras and truffles, all the 
ingredients called for in this book are available in the average American gro- 
cery store. The following list is an explanation of the use of some items: 


BACON, lard de poitrine fumé The kind of bacon used in French recipes is fresh, 
unsalted, and unsmoked, lard de poitrine frais. As this is difficult to find in America, 
we have specified smoked bacon; its taste is usually fresher than that of salt pork. 
It is always blanched in simmering water to remove its smoky taste. If this were not 
done, the whole dish would taste of bacon. 


Blanched Bacon 

Place the bacon strips in a pan of cold water, about 1 quart for each 4 ounces. 
Bring to the simmer and simmer 10 minutes. Drain the bacon and rinse it 
thoroughly in fresh cold water, then dry it on paper towels. 


BUTTER, beurre French butter is made from matured cream rather than from 
sweet cream, is unsalted, and has a special almost nutty flavor. Except for cake 
frostings and certain desserts for which we have specified unsalted butter, American 
salted butter and French butter are interchangeable in cooking. (Note: It has recently 
become a habit in America to call unsalted butter, “sweet butter”; there is an at- 
tractive ring to it. But technically any butter, salted or not, which is made from sweet, 
unmatured cream is sweet butter.) 


Clarified Butter, beurre clarifié 

When ordinary butter is heated until it liquefies, a milky residue sinks to the 
bottom of the saucepan. The clear, yellow liquid above it is clarified butter. It 
burns less easily than ordinary butter, as it is the milky particles in ordinary 
butter which blacken first when butter is heated. Clarified butter is used for 
sautéing the rounds of white bread used for canapés, or such delicate items as 
boned and skinned chicken breasts. It is also the base for brown butter sauce, 
and is used rather than fat in the brown roux for particularly fine brown 


16 INGREDIENTS 


sauces. To clarify butter, cut it into pieces and place it in a saucepan over 
moderate heat. When the butter has melted, skim off the foam, and strain the 
clear yellow liquid into a bowl, leaving the milky residue in the bottom of the 
pan. The residue may be stirred into soups and sauces to serve as an enrich- 
ment. nn à 


Butter Temperatures, Butter Foam 


Whenever you are heating butter for an omelette or butter and oil for a sauté 
your recipe will direct you to wait until the‘butter foam looks a certain way. 
This is because the condition of the foam is a sure indication of how hot the 
butter is. As it begins to melt, the butter will foam hardly at all, and is not hot 
enough to brown anything. But as the heat increases, the liquids in the butter 
evaporate and cause the butter to foam up. During this full-foaming period 
the butter is still not very hot, only around 212 degrees. When the liquids have 
almost evaporated, you can see the foam subsiding. And when you see practi- 
cally no foam, you will also observe the butter begin to turn light brown, then 
dark brown, and finally a burnt black. Butter fortified with oil will heat to a 
higher temperature before browning and burning than will plain butter, but 
the observable signs are the same. Thus the point at which you add your eggs 
to the omelette pan or your meat to the skillet is when the butter is very hot 
but not browning, and that is easy to see when you look at the butter. If it is 
still foaming up, wait a few seconds; when you see the foam begin to subside, 
the butter is hot enough for you to begin. 


CHEESE, fromage The two cheeses most commonly used in French cooking are 
Swiss and Parmesan. Imported Swiss cheese is of two types, either of which may 
be used: the true Gruyére with small holes, and the Emmenthal which is fatter, less 
salty, and has large holes. Wisconsin “Swiss” may be substituted for imported Swiss. 
Petit suisse, a cream cheese that is sometimes called for in French recipes, is analogous 
to Philadelphia cream cheese. 


CREAM, crème fraîche, crème double French cream is matured cream, that is, lactic 
acids and natural ferments have been allowed to work in it until the cream has 
thickened and taken on a nutty flavor. It is not sour. Commercially made sour cream 
with a butterfat content of only 18 to 20 per cent is no substitute; furthermore, it can- 
not be boiled without curdling. French cream has a butterfat content of at least 30 
per cent. American whipping cream with its comparable butterfat content may be 
used in any French recipe calling for créme fraiche. If it is allowed to thicken with 
a little buttermilk, it will taste quite a bit like French cream, can be boiled without 
curdling, and will keep for 10 days or more under refrigeration; use it on fruits 
or desserts, or in cooking. 


I tsp commercial buttermilk Stir the buttermilk into the cream and heat to luke 


1 cup whipping cream warm—not over 85 degrees. Pour the mixture into a 


ve 


INGREDIENTS I7 


loosely covered jar and let it stand at a temperature 
of not over 85 degrees nor under 6o degrees until it 
has thickened. This will take 5 to 8 hours on a hot 
day, 24 to 36 hours at a low temperature. Stir, cover, 
and refrigerate. 
[nore: French unmatured or sweet cream is called fleurette] 


FLOUR, farine Regular French household flour is made from soft wheat, while 
most American flour is made from hard wheat; in addition, French flour is usually 
unbleached. This makes a difference in cooking quality, especially when you are 
translating French recipes for yeast doughs and pastries. We have found that a reason- 
able approximation of French flour, if you need one, is 3 parts American all-purpose 
unbleached flour to 1 part plain bleached cake flour. 

Be accurate when you measure flour or you will run into cake and pastry prob- 
lems. Although a scale is ideal, and essential when you are cooking in large quantities, 
cups and spoons are accurate enough for home cooking when you use the scoop- 
and-level system illustrated here. 





For all flour measurements in this volume, scoop the dry-measure cup directly 
into your flour container and fill the cup to overflowing (A); do not shake the 
cup or pack down the flour. Sweep off excess so that flour is even with the lip 
of the cup, using a straight edge of some sort (B). Sift only after measuring. 





In first edition copies of this volume all flour had to be sifted, and we advised 
that our flour be sifted directly into the cup; cake flour weighed less per cup than 
all-purpose flour, and it was a cumbersome system all around. The scoop-and-level is 
far easier, and just as reliable. See next page for a chart of weights and measures for 


flour measured this way. 


18 INGREDIENTS 


FLOUR WEIGHTS: Approximate Equivalents (scoop-and-level method) 


3% cups of flour I pound 454 grams 

I cup 5 ounces 140 grams 

3/4 cup 3}, ounces ~ -æ T05 grams 

73 cup 3/4 ounces 90 grams 

12 cup 2! ounces 70 grams 

134 cup 14 ounces ` . s 50 grams 

1 Tb 14 ounce 834 grams 

374 cups 171, ounces 500 grams or ¥, kilo 


Note: z cuillère de farine in a French recipe usually means 1 heaping French 
tablespoon, or 15 to 20 grams—the equivalent of 2 level American Tb. 


GLACEED FRUITS, CANDIED FRUITS, fruits confits These are fruits such as 
cherries, orange peel, citron, apricots, and angelica, which have undergone a preserv- 
ing process in sugar. They are sometimes coated with sugar so they are not sticky; at 
other times they are sticky, depending on the specific process they have been through. 
Glacéed fruits are called for in a number of the dessert recipes; most groceries carry 
selections or mixtures in jars or packages. 


HERBS, herbes Classical French cooking uses far fewer herbs than most Ameri- 
cans would suspect. Parsley, thyme, bay, and tarragon are the stand-bys, plus fresh 
chives and chervil in season. A mixture of fresh parsley, chives, tarragon, and chervil 
is called fines herbes. Mediterranean France adds to the general list basil, fennel, 
oregano, sage, and saffron. The French feeling about herbs is that they should be an 
accent and a complement, but never a domination over the essential flavors of the 
main ingredients. Fresh herbs are, of course, ideal; and some varieties of herbs freeze 
well. Excellent also are most of the dried herbs now available. Be sure any dried or 
frozen herbs you use retain most of their original taste and fragrance. 


A Note on Bay Leaves 
American bay is stronger and a bit different in taste than European bay. We 


suggest you buy imported bay leaves; they are bottled by several of the well- 
known American spice firms. 


HERB BOUQUET, bouquet garni This term means a combination of parsley, 
thyme, and bay leaf for flavoring soups, stews, sauces, and braised meat and vege- 
tables. If the herbs are fresh and in sprigs or leaf, the parsley is folded around them 
and they are tied together with string. If the herbs are dried, they are wrapped in a 
piece of washed cheesecloth and tied. A bundle is made so the herbs will not disperse Va, 
themselves into the liquid or be skimmed off it, and so that they can be remove 
easily. Celery, garlic, fennel, or other items may be included in the packet, but are 


INGREDIENTS 19 


always specifically mentioned, such as “a medium herb bouquet with celery stalk.” 
A small herb bouquet should contain 2 parsley sprigs, % of a bay leaf, and 1 sprig or 
8 teaspoon of thyme. 


MARROW, moelle The fatty filling of beef leg-bones, marrow is poached and used 
in sauces, garnitures, and on canapés. It is prepared as follows: 


A beef marrowbone about 5 Stand the bone on one end and split it with a cleaver. 
inches long Remove the marrow in one piece if possible. Slice or 
dice it with a knife dipped in hot water. 
Boiling bouillon or boiling Shortly before using, drop the marrow into the hot 
salted water liquid. Set aside for 3 to 5 minutes until the marrow 
has softened. Drain, and it is ready to use. 


OIL, huile Classical French cooking uses almost exclusively odorless, tasteless vege- 
table oils for cooking and salads. These are made from peanuts, corn, cottonseed, 
sesame seed, poppy seed, or other analogous ingredients. Olive oil, which dominates 
Mediterranean cooking, has too much character for the subtle flavors of a delicate 
dish. In recipes where it makes no difference which you use, we have just specified 
“oil.” 

SHALLOTS, échalotes Shallots with their delicate flavor and slightest hint of garlic 
are small members of the onion family. They are used in sauces, stuffings, and general 
cooking to give a mild onion taste. The minced white part of green onions (spring 
onions, scallions, ciboules) may take the place of shallots. If you can find neither, 
substitute very finely minced onion dropped for one minute in boiling water, rinsed, 
and drained. Or omit them altogether. 

TRUFFLES, truffes Truffles are round, pungent, wrinkled, black fungi usually an 
inch or two in diameter which are dug up in certain regions of France and Italy 
from about the first of December to the end of January. They are always expensive. 
If you have ever been in France during this season, you will never forget the exciting 
smell of fresh truffles, Canned truffles, good as they are, give only a suggestion of 
their original glory. But their flavor can be much enhanced if a spoonful or two of 
Madeira is poured into the can half an hour before the truffles are to be employed. 
Truffles are used in decorations, with scrambled eggs and omelettes, in meat stuffings 
and pétés, and in sauces. The juice from the can is added to sauces and stuffings for 
additional truffle flavor. A partially used can of truffles may be frozen. 


PA 


MEASURES 


À PINT’s A POUND the world around except in England where a pint of 
water weighs a pound and a quarter, and all measurements in this book are 
level. The following table is for those who wish to translate French measure- 
ments into the nearest convenient American equivalent and vice versa: 


AMERICAN SPOONS FRENCH LIQUID LIQUID 
AND CUPS EQUIVALENTS OUNCES GRAMS 
1 tsp (teaspoon) 1 cuillère à café 4 5 
1 Tb (tablespoon) 1 cuillére & soupe, 4 15 
cuillère à bouche 
or verre à liqueur 
1 cup (16 Tb) 14 litre less 2 Tb 8 227 
2 cups (1 pint) 14 litre less 14 16 (1 pound) 454 
décilitre 
4 cups (1 quart) Mo litre 32 907 
62 Tb 1 décilitre 3% 100 
1 demi-verre 
z cup plus : Tb 44 litre 814 250 
4% cups 1 litre 2.2 pounds 1000 (1 kilogram) 


A pinch, une pincée The amount of any ingredient you can take up between your 
thumb and forefinger. There are big and little pinches. 


BRITISH MEASURES 


British dry measures for ounces and pounds and linear measures for 
inches and feet are the same as American measures. However, the British 
liquid ounce is .96 times the American ounce; the British pint contains 20 
British ounces; and the quart, 40 ounces. A gill is 5 ounces, or about % of ah 
American cup. 


MEASURES 2I 


CONVERSION FORMULAS American, British, Metric 


To Convert MuLrtPLY By 
Ounces to grams The ounces ` 28.35 
Grams to ounces © The grams 0.035 
Liters to U.S. quarts The liters 0.95 
Liters to British quarts The liters 0.88 
U.S. quarts to liters The quarts 1.057 
British quarts to liters The quarts 1.14 
Inches to centimeters The inches 2.54 
Centimeters to inches The centimeters 0.39 


CUP-DECILITER EQUIVALENTS : deciliter equals 634 tablespoons 


Cups DEcILITERS Cups DECILITERS 

ZA 0.56 114 2.83 

78 0.75 14 3.0 

% Tig 14 3-4 

% 1.5 1% 3-75 

34 1.68 - 134 4.0 

I 227 2 4.5 

GRAM-OUNCE EQUIVALENTS 
GRAMS Ounces Grams Ounces GRAMS Ounces 

25 0.87 75 2.63 100 35 
30 1.0 80 2.8 125 4.4 
50 1.75 85 3.0 150 5.25 


MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES 
We have used the following measurements and equivalents throughout. 


ALMONDS 
4 ounces of whole shelled, powdered, or slivered almonds equal about 34 cup. 


APPLES 
3 pounds of whole apples yield about 8 cups of sliced apples, and 34 cups of 


applesauce. 


BACON 
2 ounces of diced raw bacon yield about 14 cup. 


BREAD CRUMBS 
2 ounces of lightly packed fresh bread crumbs make about 1 cup; 2 ounces of 


dry bread crumbs make about 34 cup. 


22 MEASURES 


BUTTER 
1 pound of butter equals 16 ounces, 2 cups, or 32 tablespoons. A 14-pound stick 
of butter is 4 ounces, 14 cup, or 8 tablespoons. For easy measurement of butter 
in tablespoons, mark a '4-pound stick with ps edge of a knife into 8 equal 
portions; each portion is 1 tablespoon. ~ `~ i 


CABBAGE 
¥Y, pound of minced or sliced cabbage, pressed down, ‘equals about 3 cups. 


CARROTS 


1 medium carrot equals 21⁄4 to 3 ounces; 1 pound of sliced or diced carrots 
equals 34 to 4 cups. 


CELERY STALK 


1 celery stalk of medium size weighs 114 to 2 ounces; 2 sliced celery stalks equal 
4 to I cup. 


CHEESE 
2 ounces of lightly packed grated cheese equal about 1⁄4 cup. 


EGGS 
1 US. large graded egg weighs about 2 ounces. 
1 US. large egg white equals 1 ounce or 2 tablespoons. 
1 US. large egg yolk equals 1⁄ ounce or 1 tablespoon. 


FLOUR 


See table of equivalents and measuring directions, pages 17, 18. 


GARLIC 
1 medium clove of garlic equals 46 ounce or 1% teaspoon. To remove the 
smell of garlic from your hands, rinse them in cold water, rub with table salt, 
rinse again in cold water, then wash with soap and warm water. Repeat if 
necessary. 


: MUSHROOMS 
Y, pound of sliced fresh mushrooms equals about 214 cups. 
Y, pound of diced fresh mushrooms equals about 2 cups. 


ONIONS 
1 medium onion equals 244 to 3 ounces. 
1 pound of sliced or diced onions yields 344 to 4 cups. 
See the note on garlic about how to remove the smell of onions from your 


hands. 
POTATOES 


1 medium potato equals 3/4 to 4 ounces. ant 
1 pound of sliced or diced potatoes yields 312 to 4 cups.. 
1 pound of unpeeled raw potatoes yields about 2 cups of mashed potatoes. 


MEASURES 23 


RICE 


Y, pound of raw rice equals about 1 cup; and 1 cup of raw rice yields about 3 
cups of cooked rice. 


SALT 
Use 1 to 1! teaspoons of walt per quart of liquid for the boiling of vegetables 
and the flavoring of unsalted soups and sauces. Also use 1 to 114 teaspoons of 
salt per pound of boneless raw meat. If you have oversalted a sauce or a soup, 
you can remove some of the saltiness by grating in raw potatoes. Simmer the 
potatoes in the liquid for 7 to 8 minutes, then strain the liquid; the potatoes will 
have absorbed quite a bit of the excess salt. 


SHALLOTS 


1 medium shallot equals 14 ounce or 1 tablespoon when minced. 


SUGAR, GRANULATED 
I cup equals 6!4 ounces or 190 grams. 
1 pound equals 244 cups or 454 grams. 
100 grams equals 3/2 ounces or 4 cup. 


SUGAR, POWDERED 


1 cup equals 274 ounces or 80 grams. 


TOMATOES 
1 tomato equals 4 to 5 ounces; 1 pound of fresh tomatoes peeled, seeded, juiced, 
and chopped as illustrated on page 505 will yield about 1}, cups of tomato pulp. 


“+ 


TEMPERATURES 


Fahrenheit and Centigrade 


TO CONVERT FAHRENHEIT INTO CENTIGRADE, subtract 32, multiply 
by 5, divide by 9. 


Example: 212 (Fahrenheit) minus 32 equals 180 
180 multiplied by 5 equals goo 
goo divided by 9 equals 100, or the temperature of boiling water in centi- 
grade 


TO CONVERT CENTIGRADE INTO FAHRENHEIT, multiply by 9, divide 
by 5, add 32. 


Example: 100 (centigrade) multiplied by 9 equals goo 
goo divided by 5 equals 180 
180 plus 32 equals 212, or the temperature of boiling water in Fahrenheit 


TEMPERATURE CONVERSION TABLE 
American—French—British 


FAHRENHEIT 





à BRITISH 
PNR CENTI- | AMERICAN OVEN Salsalina REGULO” 
(AMERICAN | Grape | Température | TEMPERATURE TERMS, OVEN 
AND AND FAIRLY STANDARD 
DEGREES TERMS THERMOSTAT 
BRITISH) THERMOSTAT SETTINGS 
SETTINGS 
t60 qi #1 
87° 77 
200 93 Très Doux; Etuve 
212 100 
221 105 #2 
225 107 Doux 
230 110 #3 #4 (241 F) 
250 121 
275 135 #2 (266 F) 
284 140 Moyen; Modéré #1 (291 F) 
300 149 
302 150 #4 
320 160 #2 (313 F) 
325 163 
#3 (336 F) 
350 177 Moderate Assez Chaud; Bon Four 
356 180 #4 (358 F) 
375 190 #5 
390 200 f (379 F) 
400 205 #6 (403 F) 
410 210 Hot Chaud 
425 218 #6 #7 (424 F) 
428 220 
437 5) 
450 232 #8 (446 F) 
475 246 Very Hot Très Chaud; Vif #9 (469 F) 
500 260 #7 
525 274 #8 
550 288 #9 


#4 


CUTTING 


Chopping, Slicing, Dicing, and Mincing 


F RENCH COOKING requires a good deal of slicing, dicing, mincing, and 
fancy cutting, and if you have not learned to wield a knife rapidly a recipe 
calling for 2 cups of finely diced vegetables and 2 pounds of sliced mushroom 
caps is often too discouraging to attempt. It takes several weeks of off-and-on 
practice to master the various knife techniques, but once learned they are never 
forgotten. You can save a tremendous amount of time, and also derive a modest 
pride, in learning how to use a knife professionally. 


Fe 


The Knife Grip 





For cutting and slicing, hold the knife with your thumb and index finger 
gripping the top of the blade, and wrap your other fingers around the handlé*: 





CUTTING 27 


Chopping 





For chopping, hold the knife blade by both ends and chop with rapid 
up-and-down movements, brushing the ingredients repeatedly into a heap 
again with the knife. 


Slicing Round Objects (a) 





To slice potatoes or other round or oval objects, cut the potato in half and 
lay it cut-side down on the chopping board. Use the thumb of your left hand 
as a pusher, and grip the sides of the potato with your fingers, pointing your 
fingernails back toward your thumb so you will not cut them. 


Slicing Round Objects (b) 





Cut straight down, at a right angle to board, with a quick stroke of the 
knife blade, pushing the potato slice away from the potato as you hit the board. 


28 CUTTING 


The knuckles of your left hand act as a guide for the next slice. This goes 
slowly at first, but after a bit of practice, 2 pounds of potatoes can be sliced in 
less than 5 minutes. 





Slicing Long Objects Like Carrots 





To slice long objects like carrots, cut a thin strip off one side so the carrot 
will lie flat on the board. Then cut crosswise slices as for the potatoes in the 
preceding paragraph. 


Julienne (a) 





To cut vegetables such as carrots or potatoes into julienne matchsticks, 
remove a thin strip off one side of the carrot and lay the carrot on the board. 
Then cut it into lengthwise slices 4 inch thick. 


Ne, 


* 





CUTTING 29 


Julienne (b) 





Two at a time, cut the slices into strips % inch across, and the strips into 
whatever lengths you wish. 









Dicing Solid Vegetables 


Proceed as for the julienne, but cut the strips, a handful at a time, cross- 


wise into dice. 


30 CUTTING 


Dicing Onions and Shallots (a) 





A 
ROOT END 


Once mastered, this method of dicing onions or shallots goes like light- 
ning. Cut the onion in half through the root. Lay one half cut-side down, its 
root-end to your left. Cut vertical slices from one side to the other, coming just 
to the root but leaving the slices attached to it, thus the onion will not fall 
apart. 


Dicing Onions and Shallots (b) 


Then make horizontal slices from bottom to top, still leaving them at- 
tached to the root of the onion. 





Dicing Onions and Shallots (c) 


Finally, make downward cuts and the onion falls into dice. 





Mushrooms 





` 
Ne 


+ 
Various methods for cutting mushrooms are illustrated on page 509. 


À 


WINES 
I - Cooking with Wine 


= like the people who eat it, can be stimulated by wine or spirits. 
And, as with people, it can also be spoiled. The quality in a white or red wine, 
vermouth, Madeira, or brandy which heightens the character of cooking is not 
the alcohol content, which is usually evaporated, but the flavor. Therefore any 
wine or spirit used in cooking must be a good one. If it is excessively fruity, 
sour, or unsavory in any way, these tastes will only be emphasized by the cook- 
ing, which ordinarily reduces volume and concentrates flavor. If you have not 
a good wine to use, it is far better to omit it, for a poor one can spoil a simple 
dish and utterly debase a noble one. 


WHITE WINE 


White wine for cooking should be strong and dry, but never sour or 
fruity. A most satisfactory choice is white Macon, made from the Pinot Blanc 
or the Chardonnay grape. It has all the right qualities and, in France, is not 
expensive. As the right white wine is not as reasonable to acquire in America, 
we have found that a good, dry, white vermouth is an excellent substitute, and 
much better than the wrong kind of white wine. 


RED WINE 

A good, young, full-bodied red wine is the type you should use for cook- 

ing. In France you would pick a Mâcon, one of the lesser Burgundies, one of 
the more full-bodied regional Bordeaux such as St.-Émilion, or a good local 


wine having these qualities. 


32 WINES 


FORTIFIED WINES, SPIRITS, AND LIQUEURS 


Fortified wines, spirits, and liqueurs are used principally for final flavor- 
ings. As they must be of excellent quality they are always expensive; but 
usually only a small quantity is called for, so your supply should last quite a 
while. Here, particularly, if you do not want to spend the money for a good 
bottle, omit the ingredient or pick another recipe. 

RUM and LIQUEURS are called for ir desserts. Dark Jamaican rum is 
the best type to use here, to get a full rum flavor. Among liqueurs, orange is 
most frequently specified; good imported brands as touchstones for flavor are 
Cointreau, Grand Marnier, and curaçao. 

MADEIRA and PORT are often the final flavor-fillip for sauces, as in a 
brown Madeira sauce for ham, or chicken in port wine. These wines should 
be the genuine imported article of a medium-dry type, but can be the more 
moderately priced examples from a good firm. 

SHERRY and MARSALA are rare in French cooking. If used in place of 
port or Madeira they tend to give an un-French flavor to most French recipes. 

BRANDY is the most ubiquitous spirit in French cooking from desserts 
to sauces, consommés, aspics, and flambées. Because there are dreadful con- 
coctions bottled under the label of brandy, we have specified cognac whenever 
brandy is required in a recipe, as a reminder that you use a good brand. You 
do not have to buy Three-star or V.S.O.P, but whatever you use should com- 
pare favorably in taste with a good cognac. 


II - Wine and Food 


Bx WONDERFUL THING about French wines is that they go so well with 
food. And there is always that enjoyable problem of just which of the many 
possible choices you should use for a particular occasion. If you are a neophyte 
wine drinker, the point to keep in mind in learning about which wine to serve 
with which dish is that the wine should complement the food and the food 
should accentuate and blend with the qualities of the wine. A robust wine 
overpowers the taste of a delicate dish, while a highly spiced dish will kill 
the flavor of a light wine. A dry wine tastes sour if drunk with a sweet des" 
sert, and a red wine often takes on a fishy taste if served with fish. Great com- 


WINE AND FOOD 33 


binations of wine and food are unforgettable: kidneys and one of the great 
red Burgundies, where each rings reminiscent changes on the characteristics 
of the other; sole in one of the rich white wine sauces and a fine white Bur- 
gundy; soufflé à la liqueur and a Château d’ Yquem. And then there are 
the more simple pleasures of a stout red wine and a strong cheese, white wine 
and oysters, red wine and a beef stew, chilled rosé and a platter of cold meats. 
Knowledge of wines is a lifetime hobby, and the only way to learn is to start 
in drinking and enjoying them, comparing types, vintages, and good mar- 
riages of certain wines with certain foods. 

Wine suggestions go with all the master recipes for main courses. Here 
is a list of generally accepted concordances to reverse the process. As this is a 
book on French cooking, we have concentrated on French wines. 


SWEET WHITE WINES (not champagnes) 

The best known of these are probably the Sauternes, the greatest of which 
is Château d’ Yquem. They may range from noble and full bodied to relatively 
light, depending on the vineyard and vintage. 

Sweet white wines are too often neglected. Those of good quality can 
be magnificent with dessert mousses, creams, soufflés, and cakes. And a fine 
Sauternes is delicious with foie gras or a pâté of chicken livers. In the old days 
sweet wines were drunk with oysters. 


LIGHT, DRY, WHITE WINES 
Typical examples are Alsatian Riesling, Muscadet, Sancerre, and usually 
Pouilly-Fumé, Pouilly-Fuissé, and Chablis. Local wines, vins du pays, often 
fall into this category. 
Serve with oysters, cold shellfish, boiled shellfish, broiled fish, cold meats, 
egg dishes, and entrées. 


FULL-BODIED DRY, WHITE WINES 


White Burgundy, Côtes du Rhône, and the dry Graves are examples. 

Serve with fish, poultry, and veal in cream sauces. White Burgundy can 
also be drunk with foie gras, and it is not unheard of to serve a Meursault with 
Roquefort cheese. 


ROSES 
Rosés can be served with anything, but are usually reserved for cold 


dishes, patés, eggs, and pork. 


34 WINES 


LIGHT-BODIED RED WINES 


These are typically Bordeaux from the Médoc or Graves districts. Many 
of the regional wines and local ins du pays can also be included here. 

Serve Bordeaux with roast chicken, turkey, veal, or lamb; also with filet of 
beef, ham, liver, quail, pheasant, foie gras, and soft fermented cheese like 
camembert. Regional wines and vins du pays go especially well with informal 
dishes such as beef or lamb stew, daubes, bouillabaisse, hamburgers, steaks, and 


patés. 


FULL-BODIED RED WINES 


All of the great Burgundies and Rhônes fall into this category; the full 
bodied Bordeaux from St. Emilion may be included also. 

Serve with duck, goose, kidneys, well-hung game, meats marinated in 
red wine, and authoritative cheeses such as Roquefort. They are called for 
wherever strong-flavored foods must meet strong-flavored wines. 


CHAMPAGNE 
Brut 
Serve as an apéritif, or at the end of an evening. Or it may accompany 
the whole meal. i 


Dry, Sec 


Serve as an apéritif, or with crustaceans, or foie gras, or with nuts and 
dried fruits. 


Sweet, Doux, Demi-sec 


Sweet champagne is another neglected wine, yet is the only kind to serve 
‘with desserts and pastries. 


III * The Storage and Serving of Wine 


Except for champagne, which has sugar added to it to produce the bubbles, 
great French wines are the unadulterated, fermented juice from the pressings 
of one type of grape originating in one vineyard during one harvest season, 
Lesser wines, which can be very good, may also be unadulterated. On TN 
other hand, they may be fortified with sugar during a lean year to build up 


STORAGE AND SERVING 35 


their alcoholic strength, or they may be blended with wines from other vine- 
yards or localities to give them more body or uniformity of taste. The quality 
of a wine is due to the variety of grape it is made from, the locality in which 
it is grown, and the climate during the wine-growing year. In exceptional 
years such as 1929 and 1947, even lesser wines can be great, and the great ones 
become priceless. Vintage charts, which you can pick up from your wine mer- 
chant, evaluate the various wines by region for each year. 

Fine wine is a living liquid containing no preservatives. Its life com- 
prises youth, maturity, old age, and death. When not treated with reasonable 
respect it will sicken and die. If it is left standing upright for a length of time, 
the cork will dry out, air will enter the bottle, and the wine will spoil. Shaking 
and joggling are damaging to it, as are extreme fluctuations of heat and cold. 
If it is to be laid down to grow into maturity, it should rest on its side in a 
dark, well-ventilated place at a temperature of around 50 degrees Fahrenheit. 
If it is to be kept only for a year or two, it can be laid in any dark and quiet 
corner as long as the temperature remains fairly constant and is neither below 
50 degrees nor over 65. 

Even the most modest wine will improve if allowed to rest for several 
days before it is drunk. This allows the wine to reconstitute itself after its 
journey from shop to home. Great wines, particularly the red ones, benefit 
from a rest of at least two to three weeks. 


TEMPERATURE AT WHICH WINE SHOULD BE SERVED 


Red wines, unless they are very young and light, are generally served at 
a normal room temperature of around 65 degrees Fahrenheit. At lower tem- 
peratures they do not show off their full qualities. At least four hours in the 
dining room are required to bring them slowly up from the temperature of 
a 50-degree cellar. Never warm a wine artificially; an old wine can be ruined 
if the bottle is heated. It is better to pour it out too cold, and let it warm in the 
glass. 

White wines, champagnes, and rosés are served chilled. As a rule, the 
sweeter the wine, the colder it should be. A Sauternes or sweet champagne 
will take four to five hours in the refrigerator. For other white wines, two to 
three hours are sufficient; if they are too cold, they lose much of their taste. 


UNCORKING 


White wines, rosés, and many red wines, particularly young reds, are 
uncorked just before serving, but there is no set rule; this applies especially 


36 WINES 


to the Bordeaux reds and other cabernets. Many authorities recommend that 
these be uncorked and poured at once, then one waits upon them in the glass, 
tasting them as they develop. Some fine old reds fade within a few minutes 
of opening, while other wines are utterly wasted if drunk before they have 
had time to bloom forth in the glass. If you know your particular bottles from 
previous tastings, you can, of course, judge the pouring and drinking of them 
accordingly. Therein lies the science of the experienced wine connoisseur— 
the more you drink (and think upon it), the more you'll know. 


WINE BASKETS, DECANTERS, AND GLASSES 


Old red wines that throw a deposit in the bottom of the bottle must be 
handled so as not to disturb the deposit and circulate it through the wine. 
Either pour the wine into a decanter leaving the deposit behind, or serve it 
from a wine basket where it will remain in a prone position. When serving 
from a basket, pour very smoothly so the wine does not slop back into the bot- 
tle and agitate the sediment. 

Young red wines, white wines, rosés, and champagnes throw no deposit, 
so the use of a wine basket is silly. The bottle is stood upright after the wine 
is poured. 

The bigger the wine, the bigger the glass. A small glass gives no room 
for the bouquet to develop, nor for the drinker to swirl. A good all-purpose 
glass is tulip-shaped and holds 34 to 1 cup. It should be filled to just below 
the halfway mark. 


nA | 


CHAPTER ONE 


SOUP 


Potages et Soupes 


Ax EXCELLENT LUNCH or light supper need be no more than a good soup, 
a salad, cheese and fruit. And combined according to your own taste, a good 
homemade soup in these days of the can opener is almost a unique and always 
a satisfying experience. Most soups are uncomplicated to make, and the major 
portion of them can be prepared several hours before serving. Here is a varied 
handful of good recipes. 


A NOTE ON BLENDERS, PROCESSORS, AND PRESSURE COOKERS 


Although we are enthusiastic supporters of blenders and food processors, 
we almost invariably prefer a vegetable mill when soups are to be puréed. 
Blenders and processors chop up and serve forth tough woody vegetable bits, 
while a vegetable mill holds them back to give you a fiber-free brew. 

A pressure cooker can save time, but the vegetables for a long-simmered 
soup should have only 5 minutes under 15 pounds pressure; more gives them 
a pressure-cooker taste. Then the pressure should be released and the soup sim- 
mered for 15 to 20 minutes so it will develop its full flavor. 


x POTAGE PARMENTIER 
[Leek or Onion and Potato Soup | 
Leek and potato soup smells good, tastes good, and is simplicity itself 


to make. It is also versatile as a soup base; add water cress and you have a 
water-cress soup, or stir in cream and chill it for a wichyssoise. To change the 


38 


CHAPTER ONE: SOUP 


formula a bit, add carrots, string beans, cauliflower, broccoli, or anything else 
you think would go with it, and vary the proportions as you wish. 
For about 2 quarts serving 6 to 8 people 


A 3- to 4-quart saucepan or 
pressure cooker 

3 to 4 cups or 1 Ib. peeled 
potatoes, sliced or diced 

3 cups or x lb. thinly sliced 
leeks including the tender 
green; or yellow onions 

2 quarts of water 


1 Tb salt 


4 to 6 Tb whipping cream 
or 2 to 3 Tb softened but- 
ter 

2 to 3 Tb minced parsley or 
chives 





Either simmer the vegetables, water, and salt to- 
gether, partially covered, for 40 to 50 minutes until 
the vegetables are tender; or cook under 15 pounds 
pressure for 5 minutes, release pressure, and simmer 
uncovered for 15 minutes. 


Mash the vegetables in the soup with a fork, or pass 
the soup through a food mill. Correct seasoning. 
(*) Set aside uncovered until just before serving, then 
reheat to the simmer. 


Off heat and just before serving, stir in the cream or 
butter by spoonfuls. Pour into a tureen or soup cups 
and decorate with the herbs. 





VARIATIONS 


Potage au Cresson 


[ Water-cress Soup | 


This simple version of water-cress soup is very good. See also the more 


elaborate recipe on page 41. 


For 6 to 8 people 


Ingredients for the leek and 
potato soup, omitting 
cream or butter enrich- 
ment until later 

14 lb. or about 1 packed cup 
of water-cress leaves and 
tender stems 


Follow the preceding master recipe, but before purée- 
ing the soup, stir in ‘the water cress and simmer for 
5 minutes. Then purée in a food mill and correct sea- 
soning. 


LEEK AND POTATO SOUP 39 


4 to 6 Tb whipping cream Off heat and just before serving, stir in the cream 
or 2 to 3 Tb softened but- or butter by’ spoonfuls. Decorate with the optional 
ter water-cress leaves. A 

Optional: a small handful of 
water-cress leaves boiled 
12 minute in water, rinsed 
in cold water, and drained 


Cold Water-cress Soup 


Use the following wichyssoise recipe, adding water cress to simmer for 5 
minutes before puréeing the soup. 


Vichyssoise 
[Cold Leek and Potato Soup | 


This is an American invention based on the leek and potato soup in the 
preceding master recipe. 
For 6 to 8 people 


3 cups peeled, sliced pota- Simmer the vegetables in stock or broth instead of 
toes water as described in the master recipe. Purée the soup 
3 cups sliced white of leek either in the electric blender, or through a food mill 
14 quarts of white stock, and then through a fine sieve. 
chicken stock, or canned 
chicken broth 
Salt to taste 


14 to x cup whipping cream Stir in the cream. Season to taste, oversalting very 


Salt and white pepper slightly as salt loses savor in a cold dish. Chill. 
Chilled soup cups Serve in chilled soup cups and decorate with minced 
2 to 3 Tb minced chives chives. 





OTHER VARIATIONS on Leek and Potato Soup 


Using the master recipe for leek and potato soup on page 37, a cup or 
two of one or a combination of the following vegetables may be added as 
indicated. Proportions are not important here, and you can use your imagina- 


40 CHAPTER ONE: SOUP 


tion to the full. Many of the delicious soups you eat in French homes and little 
restaurants are made just this way, with a leek-and-potato base to which left- 
over vegetables or sauces and a few fresh items are added. You can also experi- 
ment on your own combinations for cold soups, by stirring a cup or more of 
heavy cream into the cooked soup, chilling it, then sprinkling on fresh herbs 
just before serving. You may find you have invented a marvelous concoction, 
which you can keep as a secret of the house. ` 

To be simmered or cooked in the pressure cooker with the potatoes and 
leeks or onions at the start 

Sliced or diced carrots or turnips 

Peeled, seeded, and chopped tomatoes, page 505; or strained canned tomatoes 

Half-cooked dried beans, peas, er lentils, including their cooking liquid 

To be simmered for 10 to 15 minutes with the soup after it has been puréed 

Fresh or frozen diced cauliflower, cucumbers, broccoli, Lima beans, peas, string 
beans, okra, or zucchini 

Shredded lettuce, spinach, sorrel, or cabbage 

To be heated in the soup just before serving 

Diced, cooked leftovers of any of the preceding vegetables 

Tomatoes, peeled, seeded, juiced, and diced, page 505. 





POTAGE VELOUTE AUX CHAMPIGNONS 


[Cream of Mushroom Soup] 


Here is a fine, rich, mushroom soup either for grand occasions or as the 
main course for a Sunday supper. 
For 6 to 8 people 


A 2¥%-quart, heavy-bot- Cook the onions slowly in the butter for 8 to 10 
tomed enameled saucepan minutes, until they are tender but not browned. 
14 cup minced onions 


3 Tb butter 


3 Tb flour Add the flour and stir over moderate heat for 3 
minutes without browning. 


6 cups boiling white stock Off heat, beat in the boiling stock or broth and blegds 
or chicken stock; or it thoroughly with the flour. Season to taste. Stir in 
canned chicken broth and the mushroom stems, and simmer partially covered 


MUSHROOM SOUP 


a parsley sprigs, 43 bay 

leaf, and 14 tsp thyme 
Salt and pepper to taste 
The chopped stems from 34 

to x lb. fresh mushrooms 


z Tb butter 

An enameled saucepan 

The thinly sliced caps from 
34 to x lb. fresh mush- 
rooms 

V4 tsp salt 

1 tsp lemon juice 


2 egg yolks 

Y% to 34 cup whipping 
cream 

A 3-quart mixing bowl 

A wire whip 

A wooden spoon 


z to 3 Tb softened butter 

Optional: 6 to 8 fluted 
mushroom caps, page 510, 
cooked in butter and 
lemon juice; and/or 2 or 
3 Tb minced fresh chervil 
or parsley 


41 


for 20 minutes or more, skimming occasionally. Strain, 
pressing juices out of mushroom stems. Return the 
soup to the pan. 


Melt the butter in a separate saucepan. When it is 


foaming, toss in the mushrooms, salt, and lemon juice. 


Cover and cook slowly for 5 minutes. 


Pour the mushrooms and their cooking juices into the 
strained soup base. Simmer for 10 minutes. 
(*) If not to be served immediately, set aside un- 
covered, and film surface with a spoonful of cream or 
milk. Reheat to simmer just before proceeding to the 
step below, which will take 2 or 3 minutes. 


Beat the egg yolks and cream in the mixing bowl. 
Then beat in hot soup by spoonfuls until a cup has 
been added. Gradually stir in the rest. Correct season- 
ing. Return the soup to the pan and stir over moderate 
heat for a minute or two to poach the egg yolks, but 
do not let the soup come near the simmer. 


Off heat, stir in the butter by tablespoons. Pour the 
soup into a tureen or soup cups, and decorate with 
optional mushrooms and herbs. 





* POTAGE CREME DE CRESSON 


[Cream of Water-cress Soup] 


This is a lovely soup, and a perfect one for an important dinner. 


For 6 servings 


42 


Ys; cup minced green on- 
ions, or yellow onions 

3 Tb butter 

A  heavy-bottomed, 
quart saucepan 


2⁄2- 


3 to 4 packed cups of fresh 
water cress leaves and 
tender stems, washed, and 
dried in a towel 

14 tsp salt 


3 Tb flour 


5/2 cups boiling white stock 
or canned chicken broth 


2 egg yolks 

2 cup whipping cream 
A 3-quart mixing bowl 
A wire whip 

1 to 2 Tb softened butter 


A handful of water-cress 
"leaves dropped for % 
minute in boiling water, 
refreshed in cold water, 


and drained 


CHAPTER ONE: SOUP 


Cook the onions slowly in the butter in a covered 


saucepan for 5 to 10 minutes, until tender and translu- 
cent but not browned. 


Stir in the water cress and salt, cover, and cook slowly 
for about 5 minutes or until the leaves are tender and 
wilted. 


Sprinkle in the flour and stir over moderate heat for 
3 minutes. 


Off heat, beat in the boiling stock. Simmer for 5 


minutes, then purée through a food mill. Return to 
saucepan and correct seasoning. 

(*) If not to be served immediately, set aside un- 
covered, Reheat to simmer before proceeding. 


Blend the yolks and cream in the mixing bowl. Beat 


a cupful of hot soup into them by driblets. Gradually 
beat in the rest of the soup in a thin stream. Return 
soup to saucepan and stir over moderate heat for a 
minute or two to poach the egg yolks, but do not 
bring the soup to the simmer. Off heat, stir in the 
enrichment butter a tablespoon at a time. 


Pour the soup into a tureen or soup cups and decorate 
with optional water-cress leaves, 


TO SERVE COLD: Omit final butter enrichment and chill. If too thick, 


stir in more cream before serving. 





VARIATIONS 


Potage Crème d’Oseille or Potage Germiny F 


[Cream of Sorrel Soup] 


SPINACH OR SORREL SOUP 43 


Potage Crème d’Epinards 


[Cream of Spinach Soup] 


4 


Follow the recipe for the preceding crème de cresson, using sorrel or 
spinach leaves instead of water cress, but cut the leaves into chiffonade (thin 
slices or shreds). Do not purée the soup. 


* SOUPE À L'OIGNON 


[Onion Soup] 


The onions for an onion soup need a long, slow cooking in butter and oil, 


then a long, slow simmering in stock for them to develop the deep, rich flavor 
which characterizes a perfect brew. You should therefore count on 244 hours at 
least from start to finish. Though the preliminary cooking in butter requires 
some watching, the actual simmering can proceed almost unattended. 


For 6 to 8 servings 


1¥, lbs. or about 5 cups of 
thinly sliced yellow on- 
ions 

3 Tb butter 

1 Tb oil 

A heavy-bottomed, 4-quart 
covered saucepan 


I tsp salt 
1, tsp sugar (helps the on- 
ions to brown) 


3 Tb flour 


2 quarts boiling brown 
stock, canned beef bouil- 
lon, or 1 quart of boiling 
water and 1 quart of stock 
or bouillon 

Y cup dry white wine or 
dry white vermouth 

Salt and pepper to taste 


Cook the onions slowly with the butter and oil in the 
covered saucepan for 15 minutes. 


Uncover, raise heat to moderate, and stir in the salt 
and sugar. Cook for 30 to 40 minutes stirring fre- 
quently, until the onions have turned an even, deep, 
golden brown. 


Sprinkle in the flour and stir for 3 minutes. 


Off heat, blend in the boiling liquid. Add the wine, 


and season to taste. Simmer partially covered for 30 
to 40 minutes or more, skimming occasionally. Correct 


seasoning. 
(*) Set aside uncovered until ready to serve. Then 


reheat to the simmer. 


44 
3 Tb cognac 
Rounds of  hard-toasted 


French bread (see recipe 
following) 

I to 2 cups grated Swiss or 
Parmesan cheese 


CHAPTER ONE: SOUP 


Just before serving, stir in the cognac. Pour into a 
soup tureen or soup cups over the rounds of bread, 
and pass the cheese separately. 





GARNISHINGS FOR ONION SOUP 
Croûtes —hard-toasted French bread 


12 to 16 slices of French 
bread cut 34 to x inch 


thick 


Olive oil or beef drippings 
A cut clove of garlic 


Place the bread in one layer in a roasting pan and 
bake in a preheated 325-degree oven for about half an 
hour, until it is thoroughly dried out and lightly 
browned. 


Halfway through the baking, each side may be basted 
with a teaspoon of olive oil or beef drippings; and 
after baking, each piece may be rubbed with cut 
garlic. 


Croûtes au Fromage - cheese croûtes 


Grated Swiss or Parmesan 
cheese 
Olive oil or beef drippings 


Spread one side of each croûte with grated cheese and 
sprinkle with drops of olive oil or beef drippings. 
Brown under a hot broiler before serving. 





VARIATIONS 


Soupe a l’Oignon Gratinée 


[Onion Soup Gratinéed with Cheese] 


The preceding onion soup 

A fireproof tureen or cas- 
serole or individual onion 
soup pots 

2 ounces Swiss cheese cut 
into very thin slivers 

1 Tb grated raw onion 

12 to 16 rounds of hard- 
toasted French bread 


Preheat oven to 325 degrees. 

Bring the soup to the boil and pour into the tureen or 
soup pots. Stir in the slivered cheese and grated onion. 
Float the rounds of toast on top of the soup, and 
spread the grated cheese over it. Sprinkle with the oil 
or butter. Bake for 20 minutes in the oven, then set 
for a minute or two under a preheated broiler tox, 
brown the top lightly. Serve immediately. 


ONION SOUP 45 


1% cups grated Swiss, or 
Swiss and Parmesan 
cheese 

1 Tb olive oil or melted 
butter 


Soupe Gratinée des Trois Gourmandes 


[Onion Soup Gratinéed de Luxe] 


A final fillip to the preceding onion soup may be accomplished in the 
kitchen just before serving or by the server at the table. 


A 2-quart bowl Beat the cornstarch into the egg yolk, then the Worces- 
I tsp cornstarch tershire and the cognac. 

1 egg yolk 

1 tsp Worcestershire sauce 

3 Tb cognac 

The preceding onion soup Just before serving the soup, lift up an edge of the 
A soup ladle crust with a fork and remove a ladleful of soup. In a 
A serving fork thin stream of droplets, beat the soup into the egg 


yolk mixture with a fork. Gradually beat in two more 
ladlefuls, which may be added more rapidly. 

Again lifting up the crust, pour the mixture back into 
the soup. Then reach in under the crust with the ladle 
and stir gently to blend the mixture into the rest of 
the soup. Serve. 





SOUPE AU PISTOU 
[Provençal Vegetable Soup with Garlic, Basil and Herbs] 


Early summer is the Mediterranean season for soupe au pistou, when 
fresh basil, fresh white beans, and broad mange-tout beans are all suddenly 
available, and the market women shout in the streets, “Mesdames, faites le bon 
piste, faites le pistou!” The pistou itself, like the Italian pesca, is a sauce made of 
garlic, basil, tomato and cheese, and is just as, good on spaghetti as it is in this 
rich vegetable soup. Fortunately, this soup is not confined to summer and fresh 
vegetables, for you can use canned navy beans or kidney beans, fresh or frozen 
string beans, and a fragrant dried basil. Other vegetables in season may be 


46 


CHAPTER ONE: SOUP 


added with the green beans as you wish, such as peas, diced zucchini, and green 


or red bell peppers. 
For 6 to 8 servings 


3 quarts water 

2 cups each: diced carrots, 
diced boiling potatoes, 
diced white of leek or on- 
ions 

1 Tb salt 

(If available, 2 cups fresh 
white beans, and omit the 
navy beans farther on) 


2 cups diced green beans 
or 1 package frozen “cut” 
beans 

2 cups cooked or canned 
navy beans or kidney 
beans 

13 cup broken spaghetti or 
vermicelli 

1 slice stale white bread, 
crumbled 


78 tsp pepper 
Pinch of saffron 


4 cloves mashed garlic 

6 Tb fresh tomato purée, 
page 78, or 4 Tb tomato 
paste 

14 cup chopped fresh basil 
or 1/2 Tb fragrant dried 
basil 

V2 cup grated Parmesan 
cheese 

4 to 4 cup fruity olive oil 


Either boil the water, ‘vegetables, and salt slowly in a 


6-quart kettle for 40 minutes; or pressure-cook for 5 
minutes, release pressure, and simmer uncovered for 
15 to 20 minutes. Correct seasoning. 


Twenty minutes before serving, so the green vegeta- 


bles will retain their freshness, add the beans, spa- 
ghetti or vermicelli, bread and seasonings to the boil- 
ing soup. Boil slowly for about 15 minutes, or until 
the green beans are just cooked through. Correct 
seasoning again. 


Prepare the following pistou while the soup is cook- 


ing: place the garlic, tomato purée or paste, basil, and 
cheese in the soup tureen and blend to a paste with a 
wooden spoon; then, drop by drop, beat in the olive 
oil. When the soup is ready for serving, beat a cup 
gradually into the pistou. Pour in the rest of the soup. 
Serve with hot French bread, or hard-toasted bread 
rounds basted with olive oil, page 44. 





* AIGO BOUIDO 
[Garlic Soup | 


WK 


. . . . -$ 
Enjoying your first bowl of garlic soup, you might never suspect what it 
is made of. Because the garlic is boiled, its after-effects are at a minimum, and 


GARLIC SOUP 


47 


its flavor becomes exquisite, aromatic, and almost undefinable. Along the 
Mediterranean, an aigo bouido is considered to be very good indeed for the 
liver, blood circulation, general physical tone, and spiritual health. A head of 
garlic is not at all too much for 2 quarts of soup. For some addicts, it is not even 


enough. 
For 6 to 8 people 


I separated head or about 
16 cloves whole, unpeeled 
garlic 


2 quarts water 

2 tsp salt 

Pinch of pepper 

2 cloves 

V4 tsp sage 

Y% tsp thyme 

12 bay leaf 

4 parsley sprigs 

3 Tb olive oil 

A 3-quart saucepan 


A wire whip 

3 egg yolks 

A soup tureen 

3 to 4 Tb olive oil 


A strainer 

Rounds of hard-toasted 
French bread, page 44 

1 cup of grated Swiss or 
Parmesan cheese 


VARIATIONS 


Drop garlic cloves in boiling water and boil 30 sec- 
onds. Drain, run cold water over them, and peel. 


Place the garlic and the rest of the ingredients in the 


saucepan and boil slowly for 30 minutes. Correct 
seasoning. 


Beat the egg yolks in the soup tureen for a minute 
until they are thick and sticky. Drop by drop, beat in 
the olive oil as for making a mayonnaise. 


Just before serving, beat a ladleful of hot soup into 


the egg mixture by droplets. Gradually strain in the 
rest, beating, and pressing the juice out of the garlic. 
Serve immediately, accompanied by the bread and 
cheese. 


Soupe a l’Oeuf, Provengale 


[Garlic Soup with Poached Eggs] 


The preceding garlic soup, 
omitting the egg yolk and 
olive oil liaison 

6 very fresh eggs 


After the soup has been simmered for half an hour, 
strain it into a wide, shallow saucepan. Correct 
seasoning and bring to a simmer. Following directions 
on page 116, poach the eggs in the soup. 


48 


6to E rounds of hard- 
toasted French bread, 
page 44 

2 to 3 Tb chopped parsley 

1 cup grated Swiss or Par- 
mesan cheese 


CHAPTER ONE: SOUP 


Place a round of bread in each soup plate and top 


with a poached egg. Pour in the soup and decorate 
with parsley. Pass the cheese separately. 


Soupe à V’Ail aux Pommes de Terre 


[Saffron-flavored Garlic Soup with Potatoes | 


Ingredients for garlic soup, 
omitting the egg yolk and 
olive oil liaison 

3 cups diced “boiling” pota- 
toes 

Pinch of saffron 


After the garlic soup has simmered for 30 minutes, 


strain it and return it to the saucepan. Simmer the 
potatoes in the soup with the saffron for about 20 
minutes or until tender. Correct seasoning. Serve with 
French bread and grated Swiss or Parmesan cheese. 


SOUPE AUX CHOUX — GARBURE 
[ Main-course Cabbage Soup] 


This fine and uncomplicated peasant soup is a comforting dish for a cold 
winter day. In the Basque country, a good cabbage soup must always include a 
chunk of lard rance, their slightly rancid and much appreciated salt pork; 
otherwise, the dish is considered to lack distinction. In neighboring Béarn, 
confit d’ote—preserved goose—is added to the pot to warm up in the soup at 


the end of its cooking. 
For about 8 people 


3/2 quarts water 

3 to 4 cups peeled, quar- 
tered “boiling” potatoes 

A 1'4-pound chunk of lean 
salt pork, lean bacon, or 
smoked, unprocessed ham 


a pounds or 3 quarts of 
roughly sliced cabbage 
8 crushed peppercorns or a 


Place the water, potatoes, and meat in the kettle and 


bring it to the boil. 


Add the cabbage and all the other ingredients. Sim; ** 


mer partially covered for 114 to 2 hours or until the 
meat is tender. Discard parsley bundle. Remove the 


CABBAGE SOUP 49 


big pinch of ground chili meat, slice it into serving pieces, and return it to the 


peppers kettle. Correct seasoning. Skim off accumulated fat. 
Salt as necessary, added near (*) If not to be served immediately, set aside un- 
the end covered. Reheat to simmer before serving. 
6 parsley sprigs tied with 1 
bay leaf 


YZ tsp marjoram 

2 tsp thyme 

4 cloves mashed garlic 

a medium onions studded 
with 2 cloves 

2 peeled, quartered carrots 

Optional additions: 

2 to 4 peeled, quartered 
turnips 

2 to 3 sliced celery stalks 

r to 2 cups fresh white 
beans, or half-cooked navy 
beans, or add canned 
white or red beans to soup 
10 to 15 minutes before 
end of simmering 


Rounds of  hard-toasted Serve in a tureen or soup plates, accompanied by the 
French bread, page 44 bread. 


TWO MEDITERRANEAN FISH SOUPS 


How to make a real Mediterranean fish soup is always a subject of lively 
and utterly dogmatic discussion among French experts; and if you do not 
happen to live on the Mediterranean, you cannot obtain the particular rockfish, 
gurnards, mullets, weavers, sea eels, wrasses, and breams which they consider 
absolutely essential. But you can make an extremely good fish soup even if you 
have only frozen fish and canned clam juice to work with because the other 
essential flavorings of tomatoes, onions or leeks, garlic, herbs, and olive oil are 
always available. 


FISH TO USE 


Fish soups are usually made from lean fish. The flavor of the soup is 
more interesting if as many varieties of fish are included as possible, and the 


59 CHAPTER ONE: SOUP 


soup has more body if a proportion of gelatinous fish such as halibut, eel, and 
some of the firmer-fleshed flounder types are used. Here are some suggestions: 


Rock, Calico, or Sea Bass Pollock or Boston Bluefish 

Cod or Lingcod . Porgy or Scup 

Conger or Sea Eel Redfish or Red Drum 
Flounder Rockfish or Sculpin 

Grouper ` $crod 

Grunt Red or Gray Snapper 

Haddock Spot 

Hake or Whiting Fresh-water Trout; Sea Trout or 
Halibut Weakfish 

Lemon Sole Shellfish—Clams, Scallops, Mus- 
Perch sels, Crab, Lobster 


To prepare the fish for cooking, have them cleaned and scaled. Discard 
the gills. Save heads and trimmings for fish stock. Cut large fish into crosswise 
slices 2 inches wide. Scrub clams. Scrub and soak the mussels, page 226. 
Wash scallops. If using live crab or lobster, split them just before cooking. 
Remove the sand sack and intestinal tube from lobsters. 


SOUPE DE POISSON 
[Strained Fish Soup] 


Soupe de poisson has the same taste as bouillabaisse, but the soup is 
strained and pasta is cooked in it to give a light liaison. If you are making the 
soup on the Mediterranean, you will come home with dozens of tiny, freshly 
caught fish all colors of the rainbow. Elsewhere, use whole fish, fish heads, 
bones, and trimmings, shellfish carcasses, or just bottled clam juice. 

For 6 to 8 people 


A soup kettle Cook the onions and leeks slowly in olive oil for 5 
I cup minced onions minutes or until almost tender but not browned. 
34 cup of minced leek, or 14 
cup more onions 
2 cup olive oil 


4 cloves mashed garlic Stir in the garlic and tomatoes. Raise heat to moderates. 
1 lb. of ripe, red tomatoes and cook 5 minutes more. 
roughly chopped, or 114 


FISH SOUPS 


cups drained canned to- 
matoes, or 1⁄4 cup tomato 
paste 


214 quarts water 

6 parsley sprigs 

1 bay leaf 

Y tsp thyme or basil 

¥ tsp fennel 

2 big pinches of saffron 

A 2-inch piece or 12 tsp 
dried orange peel 

78 tsp pepper 

1 Tb salt (none if clam juice 
is used) 

3 to 4 lbs. lean fish, fish 
heads, bones, and trim- 
mings, shellfish remains, 
or frozen fish from the 
list, page 50. Or, 1 quart 
clam juice, 112 quarts of 
water, and no salt 


2 cup to % cup spaghetti 
or vermicelli broken into 
2-inch pieces 

A 3-quart saucepan 


Rounds of  hard-toasted 
French bread, page 44 

1 to 2 cups grated Swiss or 
Parmesan cheese and 
rouille (following recipe) 


VARIATION 


51 


Add the water, herbs, seasonings, and fish to the ket- 


tle and cook uncovered at a moderate boil for 30 to 40 


minutes. 


Strain the soup into the saucepan, pressing juices out 


of ingredients. Correct seasoning, adding a bit more 
saffron if you feel it necessary. Stir in the pasta and 
boil for 10 to 12 minutes or until tender. Correct 
seasoning again. 


Pour the soup into a tureen or soup plates over the 
bread rounds, and pass the cheese and rouille sepa- 
rately. 


Substitute 3 or 4 cups of diced “boiling” potatoes for the pasta, or poach 
eggs in the soup as for the garlic soup on page 47. 


52 CHAPTER ONE: SOUP 


Rouille 


[Garlic, Pimiento, and Chili Pepper Sauce | 

The following strong sauce is passed separately with fish soup or bouilla- 
baisse; each guest helps himself and stirs it into the soup: 

For about 1 cup 


14 cup chopped red bell pep- Pound all ingrediehts in a bowl or mortar for several 
per simmered for several minutes to form a very smooth, sticky paste. 
minutes in salted water 
and drained, or canned 
pimiento 

A small chili pepper boiled 
until tender, or drops of 
Tabasco sauce 

I medium potato cooked in 
the soup 

4 cloves mashed garlic 

1 tsp basil, thyme, or savory 


4 to 6 Tb fruity olive oil Drop by drop, pound or beat in the olive oil as for 
Salt and pepper making a mayonnaise. Season to taste. 


a or 3 Tb hot soup Just before serving, beat in the hot soup by driblets. 
Pour into a sauceboat. 


BOUILLABAISSE 
[Bouillabaisse] 


You can make as dramatic a production as you want out of a bouilla- 
baisse, but remember it originated as a simple, Mediterranean fisherman’s soup, 
made from the day’s catch or its unsalable leftovers, and flavored with the typi- 
cal condiments of the region—olive oil, garlic, leeks or onions, tomatoes, and 
herbs. The fish are rapidly boiled in an aromatic broth and are removed to a 
platter; the broth is served in a tureen. Each guest helps himself to both and 
eats them together in a big soup plate. If you wish to serve wine, choose a rosé, 
or a light, strong, young red such as a Côtes de Provence or Beaujolais, or a 
strong, dry, white wine from the Côtes de Provence, or a Riesling. 

Ideally you should pick six or more varieties of fresh fish, which is ae r 
a bouillabaisse is at its best when made for at least six people. Some of the fish 


FISH SOUPS 


53 


should be firm-fleshed and gelatinous like halibut, eel, and winter flounder, 
and some tender and flaky like hake, baby cod, small pollock, and lemon sole. 
Shellfish are neither necessary nor particularly typical, but they always add 
glamor and color if you wish to include them. 

The fish, except for live lobsters and crabs, may be cleaned, sliced, and 
refrigerated several hours before the final cooking. The soup base may be 
boiled and strained. The actual cooking of the fish in the soup will take only 
about 20 minutes, and then the dish should be served immediately. 


For 6 to 8 people 


Ingredients for the preced- 
ing soupe de poisson, 
minus the pasta. Use 
fish heads, bones, and 
trimmings, and if you 
have not enough of them, 
strengthen the soup base 
with bottled clam juice 


6 to 8 pounds assorted lean 
fish, and shellfish if you 
wish, selected and pre- 
pared from the sugges- 
tions on page 50 


A hot platter 

A soup tureen 

Rounds of _hard-toasted 
French bread, page 44 

4 cup roughly chopped 
fresh parsley 

Optional: A bowl of 
rouille (page 51) 


Boil the soup ingredients for 30 to 40 minutes as de- 


scribed in the fish soup recipe, page 50. Strain, press- 
ing juices out of ingredients. Taste carefully for 
seasoning and strength. It should be delicious at this 
point, so it will need no further fussing with later. 
You should have about 244 quarts in a high, rather 
narrow kettle. 


Bring the soup to a rapid boil 20 minutes before serv- 
ing. Add lobsters, crabs, and firm-fleshed fish. Bring 
quickly back to the boil and boil rapidly for 5 minutes. 
Add the tender-fleshed fish, the clams, mussels, and 
scallops. Bring rapidly to the boil again and boil 5 
minutes more or until the fish are just tender when 
pierced with a fork. Do not overcook. 


Immediately lift out the fish and arrange on the plat- 


ter. Correct seasoning, and pour the soup into the 
tureen over rounds of French bread. Spoon a ladleful 
of soup over the fish, and sprinkle parsley over both 
fish and soup. Serve immediately accompanied by the 
optional rouille. 


CHAPTER TWO 


SAUCES 


. Sauces 


Suas ARE the splendor and glory of French cooking, yet there is noth- 
ing secret or mysterious about making them. While their roster is stupendous 
to look at, it is not mind-boggling when you begin to realize that their multi- 
tude divides itself into a half-dozen very definite groups, and that each sauce 
in a particular group is made in the same general way. For instance, every 
sauce in the white sauce group of béchamels and veloutés calls for an identical 
technique, but any change in ingredients or trimmings gives the sauce a new 
name: béchamel with grated cheese is a mornay, with minced herbs, a chivry; 
while a white-wine fish velouté with dollops of cream, egg yolk, and butter 
becomes an elegant sauce parisienne. The same is true of the egg yolk and 
butter group. When flavored with tarragon, pepper, and vinegar it’s a béarnaise, 
but lemon makes it a hollandaise—yet hollandaise with a folding-in of whipped 
cream becomes a mousseline. Thus as soon as you have put into practice the 
basic formulas for the few mother sauces, you are equipped to command the 
whole towering edifice. Here are the mother groups in the sauce family: 

THe Wuire Sauces These stem from those two cousins, béchamel and 
velouté. Both use a flour and butter roux as a thickening agent but béchamel 
is a milk-based sauce while the velouté has a fish, meat, or poultry base. These 
are fundamental to the great tradition of French cooking, as well as being 
indispensable to the home cook. Their most useful function, these easy white 
sauces, is to make an appetizing and interesting dish out of such simple ig-* 
gredients as hard-boiled eggs and diced mushrooms—gratiner them with a 


SAUCES 55 


sauce mornay. Or flake left-over poached fish, mix it with cooked onions, and 
fold it with a cream sauce before browning it with buttered bread crumbs in 
the oven. A boiled hen becomes a poule à l'ivoire when napped with a creamy 
chicken velouté and accompanied with little braised onions and steamed rice. 
It would be hard for the everyday cook to get along without these good sim- 
ple sauces. 

Tue Brown Sauces Long simmered daubes and pot roasts, stews and 
ragouts, these need brown sauces, as do sautés, brown fricassees, and roasts. 
More complicated to make than the white sauces, they have gone through some 
changes since the grande cuisine of Escoffier, as you will see in their discussion 
on page 66-7. 

Tomato Sauce, Ecc York AND Butrer Sauces (Hollandaise family), and 
THE Or AND Vinecar (French dressing) Group These need no introduction. 

FLavorer Butrers Butters creamed with various herbs, seasonings, or 
purées are included in the sauce roster. But the most important here is the hot 
butter sauce beurre blanc, a signature of the nouvelle cuisine which emerged 
in the early 1970s. Originally it was a specialty sauce reserved usually for boiled 
fish and vegetables, but, easy to make (once you know how!), it has become 
the ubiquitous restaurant sauce for all manner of fish, meat, and fowl. 

Rich sauces, especially the butter sauces and white sauces with cream and 
butter, should be used sparingly, never more than one to a meal. A sauce should 
not be considered a disguise or a mask; its role is to point up, to prolong, or 
to complement the taste of the food it accompanies, or to contrast with it, or 
to give variety to its mode of presentation. 


WHITE SAUCES 
Sauces Blanches 


White sauces are rapidly made with a white roux (butter and flour cooked 
together) plus milk, or white stock. They go with eggs, fish, chicken, veal, and 
vegetables. They are also the base for cream soups, soufflés, and many of the 
hot hors d'oeuvres. 

Sauce béchamel in the time of Louis XIV was a more elaborate sauce 
than it is today. Then it was a simmering of milk, veal, and seasonings with an 
enrichment of cream. In modern French cooking, a béchamel is a quickly 
made milk-based foundation requiring only the addition of butter, cream, 
herbs, or other flavorings to turn it into a proper sauce. 


56 CHAPTER TWO: SAUCES 


Sauce velouté is made in exactly the same way, but its roux is moistened 
with chicken, veal, or fish stock, often with a wine flavoring. Milk or cream 
are included if you wish. 


The roux 


In French cooking, the flour and butter, which act as a thickening agent 
for the sauce, are always cooked slowly together for several minutes before any 
liquid is added. This is called a roux. The cooking eliminates that raw, pasty 
taste uncooked flour will give to a sauce, and also prepares the flour particles to 
absorb the liquid. The thickness of a sauce is in direct relation to the proportion 
of flour you use per cup of liquid. The following table is based on American all- 
purpose hard-wheat flour. All flour measurements are for level tablespoons or 


fractions. 
THIN SAUCE or Soup 1 Tb flour per cup of liquid 
MEDIUM, GENERAL-PURPOSE SAUCE 114 Tb flour per cup of liquid 
Tick SAUCE 2 Tb flour per cup of liquid 
SouFFLE BASE 3 Tb flour per cup of liquid 


Cooking time 


Many of the old cookbooks recommend that a white sauce, especially a 
velouté, be simmered for several hours, the object being to rid the sauce of its 
floury taste, and to concentrate flavor. However, if the flour and butter roux 
is properly cooked to begin with, and a concentrated, well-flavored stock is 
used, both of these problems have been solved at the start. After a long simmer- 
ing, a perfectly executed velouté will acquire a certain added finesse; and if you 
have the time to simmer, by all means do so. But for the practical purposes of 
this book, we shall seldom consider it necessary. 


Saucepan note 


White sauces should always be made in a heavy-bottomed enameled, 
stainless steel, pyrex, porcelain, or tin-lined copper saucepan. If a thin-bottomed 
pan is used, it is a poor heat conductor and the sauce may scorch in the bottom 
of the pan. Aluminum tends to discolor a white sauce, particularly one contain- 
ing wine or egg yolks. 


A NOTE ON STOCKS FOR VELOUTE SAUCES 


The recipe for homemade white stock is on page 109; for white chicten™ 
stock on page 237; for fish stock on page 114; and for clam-juice fish stock on 


WHITE SAUCES 


57 


page 115. Canned chicken broth may be substituted for homemade white stock 
if you give it the following preliminary treatment: | 


Canned chicken broth 


2 cups canned chicken broth 
or strained clear chicken 
and vegetable soup 

3 Tb each: sliced onions, 
carrots, and celery 

12 cup dry white wine or 4 
cup dry white vermouth 

2 parsley sprigs, 1⁄4 bay leaf, 
and a pinch of thyme 


Simmer the chicken broth or soup with the vegetables, 
‘wine, and herbs for 30 minutes. Season to taste, strain, 
and it is ready to use. 


* SAUCE BECHAMEL 
SAUCE VELOUTE 


[White Sauce] 


This basic sauce takes about 5 minutes to make, and is then ready for the 
addition of flavors or enrichments. Suggestions for these are at the end of the 


master recipe. 


For 2 cups (medium thickness) 


A heavy-bottomed, 6-cup 
enameled, stainless steel, 
lined copper, porcelain, or 
pyrex saucepan 

2 Tb butter 

3 Tb flour 

A wooden spatula or spoon 


2 cups of milk and 1⁄4 tsp 
salt heated to the boil in a 
small saucepan 

OR 2 cups boiling white 
stock (see notes in preced- 
ing paragraph) 

A wire whip 


In the saucepan melt the butter over low heat. Blend 
in the flour, and cook slowly, stirring, until the but- 
ter and flour froth together for 2 minutes without 
coloring. This is now a white roux. 


Remove roux from heat. As soon as roux has stopped 
bubbling, pour in all the hot liquid at once. Im- 
mediately beat vigorously with a wire whip to blend 
liquid and roux, gathering in all bits of roux from the 
inside edges of the pan. 

Set saucepan over moderately high heat and stir with 
the wire whip until the sauce comes to the boil. Boil 
for 1 minute, stirring. 


58 


Salt and white pepper 


Remarks 


CHAPTER TWO: SAUCES 


Remove from heat, and beat in salt and pepper to 
taste. Sauce is now ready for final flavorings or addi- 
tions. 

(*) If not used immediately, clean sauce off inside 
edges of pan with a rubber scraper. To prevent a skin 
from forming on its surface, float a thin film of milk, 
stock, or melted butter on top. Set aside uncovered, 
keep it hot over simmering water, refrigerate, or 
freeze it. 


If you follow the preceding directions, you will always obtain a smooth 


sauce of the correct consistency. But here are some remedial measures in case 


you need them: 


If sauce is lumpy 


If sauce is too thick 


If sauce is too thin 


If your roux is hot, and your liquid near the boil, you 
should never have a lumpy sauce. But if there are 
lumps, force the sauce through a very fine sieve or 
whirl it in an electric blender. Then simmer it for 5 
minutes. 


Bring the sauce to the simmer. Thin it out with milk, 
cream, or stock, beaten in a tablespoon at a time. 


Either boil it down over moderately high heat, stirring 


continually with a wooden spoon, until it has reduced 
to the correct consistency; 
Or blend half a tablespoon of butter into a paste with 


half a tablespoon of flour (beurre manié). Off heat, 


beat the paste into the sauce with a wire whip. Boil for 
1 minute, stirring. 





ENRICHMENTS FOR WHITE SAUCES 


The three following enrichments complete the whole master system of 
white-sauce making. While a plain, well-seasoned béchamel or velouté may be 
served just as it is, the addition of butter, cream, or egg yolks transforms it into 
something infinitely more delicious. 


Butter Enrichment 


Fresh butter stirred into a sauce just before serving is the simplest of the 
enrichments. It smooths out the sauce, gives it a slight liaison, and imparts that 
certain French taste which seems to be present in no other type of cooking. 


WHITE SAUCES 59 


For a cup of simple sauce, 4 to 1 tablespoon of butter is sufficient; as much as 
Y, cup may be beaten into a fine fish sauce. But if more than a tablespoon of 
butter is beaten into a cup of sauce, the sauce should then be served immedi- 
ately. If it is reheated, or is kept hot, or if it is used for a gratinéed dish, the 
butter either liquefies and the sauce thins out just as though it had been 
diluted with milk, or the butter releases itself from suspension and floats on 
top of the sauce. However, if you slip up and heat a heavily buttered sauce, it 
will quickly reconstitute itself if you treat it like turned hollandaise, page 8r. 
To enrich 2 cups of béchamel or velouté, page 57 


2 to 8 Tb butter (1 to2 Tb Just before serving the sauce, and after all the final 
is the usual amount) flavorings have been added, remove it from heat. Stir 
A wire whip in the butter, a half-tablespoon at a time, beating until 
each piece of butter has been absorbed into the sauce 
before adding the next. Spoon the sauce over the hot 
food, or pour the sauce into a warmed bowl, and serve 

immediately. 


Cream Enrichment — Cream Sauce 


[Sauce Crème — Sauce Supréme | 


With the addition of cream, a béchamel becomes a sauce créme; and a 
velouté, a sauce supréme. As the cream thins out the sauce, the basic béchamel 
or velouté must be thick enough initially so the finished sauce will be of the 
correct consistency. 

Cream sauces are used for vegetables, eggs, fish, poultry, hot hors d’oeu- 
vres, and for dishes which are to be gratinéed. 

For 2 cups 


14 cups of thick béchamel Bring the sauce to the simmer. Beat in the cream by 
or velouté, page 57 (3 spoonfuls, simmering, until the sauce is the consistency 
Tb flour, 2% Tb butter, you wish it to be. Season to taste with salt, pepper, 
and 1⁄4 cups liquid) and drops of lemon juice. 

12 cup whipping cream 

Salt and white pepper 


Lemon juice 


Optional: 1 to 2 Tb softened Off heat, and just before serving, beat in the optional 
butter (no butter if sauce butter by half-tablespoons. 
is to be used for a 
gratinéed dish) 


60 CHAPTER TWO: SAUCES 





Egg Yolk and Cream Enrichment 


[Sauce Parisienne — formerly Sauce Allemande| | 


Sauces enriched with egg yolks and cream are among the richest and 
most velvety in all the French repertoire. Sauçe parisienne, or sauce allemande, 
is the generic term, but it invariably goes by another name according to its 
special flavorings or to the dish it accompanies. The simplest, sauce poulette, 
has a base of velouté flavored with meat or fish, onions and mushrooms. The 
famous sauce normande is a velouté based on white-wine fish stock and the 
cooking liquors of mussels, oysters, shrimps, écrevisses, and mushrooms. The 
shellfish sauces such as cardinal, Nantua, and Joinville are shellfish veloutés 
with special trimmings and a shellfish butter enrichment beaten in at the end. 
As all of these sauces are a basic velouté with a final enrichment of egg yolks, 
cream, and usually butter, if you can make one, you can make all. 

Success in making the egg yolk liaison is but a realization that egg yolks 
will curdle and turn granular unless they are beaten with a bit of cold liquid 
first, before a hot liquid is gradually incorporated into them so that they are 
slowly heated. Once this preliminary step has been completed, the sauce may 
be brought to the boil; and because the egg yolks are supported by a flour-based 
sauce they may boil without danger of curdling. 

The sauce parisienne described in the following recipe is used with eggs, 
fish, poultry, hot hors d’oeuvres, and dishes which are to be gratinéed. A heavily 
buttered sauce parisienne is used principally for fish poached in white wine, as 
described beginning on page 214 in the Fish chapter. 

For about 2 cups 


1% cups thick béchamel or Bring the sauce to the simmer in its saucepan. 
velouté, page 57 (3 Tb 
flour, 212 Tb butter, and 
12 cups liquid) 
A heavy-bottomed, 8-cup 
enameled saucepan 


2 egg yolks Blend the egg yolks and cream in the mixing bowl 
2 cup whipping cream with a wire whip. A few drops at a time, beat in 4 
An 8-cup mixing bowl cup of hot sauce. Slowly beat in the rest of the sapte 
A wire whip in a thin stream. Pour the mixture back into the 


saucepan. 


WHITE SAUCES 61 


A wooden spatula or spoon Set over moderately high heat and stir constantly with 


a wooden spoon, reaching all over the bottom of the 
pan until the sauce comes*to the boil. Boil and stir for 


I minute. 
Salt and white pepper Strain the sauce through a fine sieve to remove coagu- 
Lemon juice lated bits of egg white which always cling to the yolk. 
More cream if necessary Rinse out the saucepan and return the sauce to it. 


Simmer over low heat to check seasoning, adding salt, 
pepper, and drops of lemon juice to taste. If sauce is 
too thick, beat in more cream by spoonfuls. 

(*) If not used immediately, clean off sides of pan, 
and float a film of cream or stock over the surface. 
Sauce will thicken and look custardy as it cools, which 
is normal. It will smooth out when it is reheated. 
(Sauce may be frozen.) 


Optional: 1 to 2 Tb softened Off heat, and just before serving, stir in the optional 
butter (occasionally more butter by bits. 
is called for; use no but- 
ter if sauce is for a 
gratinéed dish) 


SAUCES DERIVED FROM BECHAMEL 
AND VELOUTE 


Here are some of the principal sauces derived from sauce béchamel and 
sauce velouté, the recipes for which are on page 57. 


Sauce Mornay 
[Cheese Sauce] 


For: eggs, fish, poultry, veal, vegetables, pastas, and hot hors d'oeuvres 

Note: If the sauce covers foods which are to be baked or gratinéed, use 
the minumum amount of cheese suggested, and omit the butter enrichment at 
the end of the recipe. Too much cheese can make the sauce stringy, and a butter 
enrichment will exude from the top of the sauce. 


62 


a cups of medium béchamel 
or velouté, page 57 

4 to Y% cup of coarsely 
grated Swiss cheese, or a 
combination of coarsely 
grated Swiss and finely 
grated Parmesan 


Salt and pepper 

Pinch of nutmeg 

Optional: pinch of cayenne 
pepper and 1 to 2 Tb 
softened butter 


Sauce Aurore 


CHAPTER TWO: SAUCES 


Bring the sauce to the boil. Remove from heat, and 


beat in the cheese until it has melted and blended with 
the sauce. 


` ` 5 
Season to taste with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and optional 
cayenne. Off heat and just before serving, stir in the 
optional butter a bit at a time. 


[Béchamel or Velouté with Tomato Flavoring] 


For: eggs, fish, chicken, vegetables 


2 cups béchamel or 
velouté, page 57, or the 
cream sauce, page 59 

2 to 6 Tb cooked, fresh 
tomato purée, page 78, 
or tomato paste 


1 to 2 Tb softened butter 
Optional: 1 to 2 Tb minced 
fresh parsley, 

basil, or tarragon 


chervil, 


Sauce Chivry 


Sauce à L’Estragon 


Bring the sauce to the simmer. Stir in the tomato, a 


spoonful at a time, until you have achieved the color 
and flavor you wish. Correct seasoning. 


Off heat and just before serving, stir in the butter, and 
the optional herbs. 


[Herbal White Wine Sauce and Tarragon Sauce] 


For: eggs, fish, vegetables, or poached chicken 


A small enameled saucepan 
1 cup dry white wine or % 
cup dry white vermouth 


Place all ingredients in the saucepan and boil slowly | 


for 10 minutes, allowing the wine to reduce to about 
3 tablespoons. This is now an herb essence. 


WHITE SAUCES 


4 Tb minced fresh chervil, 
tarragon, and parsley, or 
tarragon only; OR 2 Tb 
dried herbs 

2 Tb minced shallots .or 
green onions 


2 cups béchamel or ve- 
louté, page 57, or the 
cream sauce, page 59 


3 to 4 Tb minced fresh 
green herbs, or parsley, or 
tarragon 

1 to 2 Tb softened butter 


Sauce au Cari 


[Light Curry Sauce] 


Strain the essence into the sauce, pressing the juice 


out of the herbs. Simmer for 2 to 3 minutes. 


Off heat, and just before serving, stir in the fresh 


herbs and the enrichment butter. 


For: fish, veal, lamb, chicken, turkey, eggs, and vegetables 
Here the béchamel or velouté sauce is made simultaneously with the 


curry flavorings. 
For 212 cups 


14 cup finely minced white 
or yellow onions 

4 Tb butter 

An 8-cup enameled sauce- 
pan 


2 to 3 Tb curry powder 


4 Tb flour 


2 cups boiling milk, white 
stock, or fish stock 


4 to 6 Tb whipping cream 
Salt and pepper 
Lemon juice 


Cook the onions and butter over low heat for 10 


minutes without allowing the onions to color. 


Stir in the curry powder and cook slowly for 2 


minutes. 


Add the flour and stir over low heat for 3 minutes 


more. 


Off heat, blend in the boiling liquid. Return sauce to 


heat and simmer slowly for 10 to 15 minutes, stirring 
occasionally. 


Then stir in the cream by tablespoons, until sauce has 


thinned to consistency you wish. Check seasoning, and 
add lemon juice to taste. 


64 


1 to 2 Tb softened butter 
Optional: 2 to 3 Tb minced 
parsley 


CHAPTER TWO: SAUCES 


Off heat, and just before serving, stir in the butter by 


bits, then the optional parsley. 





Sauce Soubise 


[Onion Sauce] 


` 


For: eggs, veal, chicken, turkey, lamb, vegetables, and foods which are to 


be gratinéed 


Another version of this excellent sauce is in the Veal section, page 355. 


For about 212 cups 


1 lb. or 4 cups of sliced yel- 
low onions 

14 tsp salt 

6 Tb butter 

A 2'%-quart, heavy-bot- 
tomed, enameled sauce- 
pan 


4 Tb flour 


2 cups boiling milk, white 
stock, or fish stock 


6 to 8 Tb whipping cream 
Salt and pepper 
Pinch of nutmeg 


1 to 2 Tb softened butter 
(no butter if sauce is to be 
used for a gratinéed dish) 


Cook the onions slowly with salt and butter in a 


covered saucepan for 20 to 30 minutes, or until the 
onions are very tender but not browned. 


Add the flour and stir over low heat for 3 minutes. 


Off heat, blend in the boiling liquid. Then simmer 


the sauce slowly for 15 minutes, stirring occasionally. 
Force the sauce through a sieve or food mill, or purée 
it in the electric blender. 


Bring again to the simmer, and thin out to desired 


consistency with spoonfuls of cream. Add salt, pepper, 
and nutmeg to taste. 


Off heat and just before serving, stir in the enrichment 


butter. 





* SAUCE BATARDE 
SAUCE AU BEURRE 


[Mock Hollandaise | 


For: boiled fish, boiled chicken, boiled lamb, boiled potatoes, — 
cauliflower, celery, broccoli 


WHITE SAUCES 


65 


This quickly made and useful sauce does not belong to the béchamel and 
velouté family because it is made with ‘an uncooked roux, or beurre manié. 
A golden color is given it by the addition of an eg yolk, and when flavored 
with enough butter it suggests a hollandaise. 

For 2 cups (medium thickness) 


2 Tb melted or softened but- 


ter 

3 Tb flour 

An 8-cup, heavy-bottomed, 
enameled saucepan 

A rubber scraper 


2 cups boiling white stock, 
or vegetable cooking wa- 
ter, or water and 1⁄4 tsp 
salt 

A wire whip 


1 egg yolk 

2 Tb whipping cream 
An 8-cup mixing bowl 
Salt and white pepper 
1 to 2 Tb lemon juice 


4 to 8 Tb softened butter 


_ Place the butter and flour in the saucepan and blend 
them into a smooth paste with a rubber scraper. 


Pour on all the boiling liquid at once and blend vig- 
orously with a wire whip. 


Blend the egg yolk and cream with a wire whip, then, 
a few drops at a time, beat in 4 cup of sauce. Beat in 
the rest in a thin stream. Pour the mixture back into 
the saucepan. Bring to the boil over moderately high 
heat, beating, and boil 5 seconds. Remove from heat 
and season to taste with salt, pepper, and lemon juice. 
(*) If not used immediately, film surface with a half- 
tablespoon of melted butter. 


Off heat, and just before serving, beat in the butter, a 
tablespoon at a time. 





VARIATIONS 
Sauce aux Capres 


[Caper Sauce] 


For: boiled fish or boiled leg of lamb 


2 cups sauce bâtarde 


2 to 3 Tb capers 


Just before stirring in the enrichment butter, beat in 
the capers. Then, off heat, beat in the enrichment but- 
ter. 


66 CHAPTER TWO: SAUCES 





Sauce à la Moutarde 
[Mustard Sauce] 


For: broiled mackerel, herring, tuna, or swordfish 


2 cups sauce bâtarde omit- Blend the mustard'and butter together with a rubber 
ting final butter enrich- scraper. Off heat, and just before serving, beat the 
ment mustard/butter by tablespoons into the hot sauce. 

2 Tb strong Dijon-type pre- 
pared mustard 

4 to 8 Tb softened butter 





Sauce aux Anchois 


[Anchovy Sauce | 
For: boiled fish or boiled potatoes 


2 Tb canned anchovies Just before buttering the sauce, beat in the anchovy 
mashed into a purée or 1 mixture to taste. Then off heat, and before serving, 
Tb anchovy paste beat in the enrichment butter. 

2 cups sauce bâtarde 





BROWN SAUCES 


Sauces Brunes 


The classical French brown sauce starts out with a long-simmered brown 
meat stock that goes into the making of an equally long-simmered, lightly 
thickened sauce base called an espagnole. The espagnole is simmered and 
skimmed for several hours more with additional stock and flavorings until 
it finally develops into the traditional mother of the brown sauces, demi-glace. 
This may take several days to accomplish, and the result is splendid. But as we 
are concerned with less formal cooking, we shall discuss it no further. 

A good brown sauce may have as its thickening agent a brown roux of 
flour and butter, or cornstarch, potato starch, rice starch, or arrowroot. A flour-~. 
thickened brown sauce must be simmered and skimmed for two hours at tee 
if it is to develop its full flavor. Starch and arrowroot thickenings take but a few 


BROWN SAUCES 67 


minutes; and when properly made they are very good indeed. Because they are 
far more useful in home cooking than the long simmered and more conven- 
tional sauce, we have used them in most of the main-course recipes throughout 
this book. 

Following are three interchangeable methods for making a basic brown 
sauce, Any of them may rapidly be converted into one of the composed sauces 
starting on page 71. 


A NOTE ON MEAT STOCKS FOR BROWN SAUCES 


Recipes for making brown stocks are on pages 107 to 110. Canned beef 
bouillon may be substituted, as is, for stocks in the first two recipes for brown 
sauce. If it is to be used in the last recipe, for starch-thickened sauce, its canned 
flavor should first be disguised and enriched as follows (canned consommé 
tends to be sweet and is not recommended): 


Canned beef bouillon 


2 cups canned beef bouillon Simmer the canned bouillon with the rest of the in- 
3 Tb each: finely minced. gredients listed for 20 to 30 minutes. Strain through 
onions and carrots a fine sieve, and the bouillon is ready to be turned 
1 Tb finely minced celery into a sauce. 
2 cup red wine, dry white 
wine, or dry white ver- 
mouth 
2 parsley sprigs 
13 bay leaf 
Vs tsp thyme 
Optional: 1 Tb tomato paste 





BROWN SAUCE (1) 
SAUCE BRUNE 
[Flour-based Brown Sauce] 


This is the best of the group and the one most nearly approaching the 
traditional demi-glace. Its preliminaires are somewhat exacting, and it requires 
at least two hours of simmering; the longer it cooks the better it will be. It may 
be refrigerated for several days and freezes perfectly for several weeks. 


68 


CHAPTER TWO: SAUCES 


A NOTE ON BROWN ROUX 


Brown roux, which is the thickening for this type of sauce, is flour and fat 
cooked together until the flour has turned‘an even, aut-brown color. For an 
ordinary sauce, the flour is cooked in rendered fresh pork fat, or in cooking oil. 
But if the sauce is to accompany a delicate dish, such as foie gras, eggs, or vol-au- 
vent, the flour should be cooked in clarified butter—meaning the butter is 
melted and decanted, leaving its milky particles behind, as these burn and taste 


bitter. 


It is important that the roux be cooked slowly and evenly. If the flour is 


burned, it will not thicken the sauce as it should, and it will also impart an 


unpleasant taste. 


For about 1 quart of brown sauce 


A heavy-bottomed, 2-quart 
saucepan 

Y cup each: finely diced 
carrots, onions, and celery 

3 Tb diced boiled ham (or 
diced lean bacon sim- 
mered for 10 minutes 
in water, rinsed, and 
drained) 

6 Tb clarified butter, page 
15, rendered fresh pork 
fat, or cooking oil 


4 Tb flour 
A wooden spatula or spoon 


A wire whip 

6 cups boiling brown stock 
or canned beef bouillon 

z Tb tomato paste 

A medium herb bouquet: 3 
parsley sprigs, 2 bay leaf, 
and 1⁄4 tsp thyme tied in 
cheesecloth 





Cook the vegetables and ham or bacon slowly in the 
butter, fat, or oil for 10 minutes. 


Blend the flour into the vegetables and stir continually 


over moderately low heat for 8 to 10 minutes, until 
the flour slowly turns a golden, nut brown. 


Remove from heat. With a wire whip, immediately 
blend in all the boiling liquid at once. Beat in the 
tomato paste. Add the herb bouquet. 


\ 
Wy 


w 


Simmer slowly, partially covered, for 2 hours or more, 
skimming off fat and scum as necessary. Add more 


BROWN SAUCES 


Salt and pepper 


69 


liquid if sauce thickens too much. You should end up 
with about 4 cups of sauce, thick enough to coat a 
spoon lightly. 


Correct seasoning. Strain, pressing juice out of vege- 


tables. Degrease thoroughly, and the sauce is ready to 


_ use. 


(*) If not used immediately, clean off sides of pan, 
and float a film of stock over the top of the sauce to 
prevent a skin from forming. When cold, cover and 
refrigerate or freeze. 


BROWN SAUCE (2) 


* SAUCE RAGOUT 


[Flour-based Brown Sauce with Giblets] 


Sauce ragoût is essentially like the preceding brown sauce, but has more 
character, as it includes bones, trimmings, or giblets gathered from the game, 
beef, lamb, veal, goose, duck, or turkey the sauce is to be served with. 


For 4 cups 


A heavy-bottomed, 3- to 4- 
quart saucepan 

1 to 4 cups of giblets, bones, 
and meat trimmings, raw 
or cooked 

14 cup chopped carrots 

14 cup chopped onions 

6 Tb clarified butter (page 
15), rendered fresh pork 
fat, or cooking oil; more 


if needed 
4 Tb flour 


5 to 6 cups boiling brown 
stock or canned beef 
bouillon 

Optional: 1 cup dry white 
wine, red wine, or 74 cup 
dry white vermouth 


Brown the giblets, bones, meat trimmings and 


vegetables in hot clarified butter, fat, or oil. Remove 
them to a side dish. 


Slowly brown the flour in the fat remaining in the 


saucepan, adding more fat if necessary. 


Off heat, beat in the boiling liquid, optional wine, 


and optional tomato paste. Add the herb bouquet 
and return the browned ingredients. Simmer, skim- 
ming as necessary, for 2 to 4 hours. Strain, degrease, 
correct seasoning, and the sauce is ready to use. 


70 CHAPTER TWO: SAUCES 


Optional: 3 Tb tomato paste 

A medium herb bouquet: 3 
parsley sprigs, 1⁄2 bay leaf, 
V4 tsp thyme tied in 
cheesecloth 


VARIATIONS 
Sauce Poivrade 


| Brown Game Sauce | 


This is the same as sauce ragoût. If the game has been marinated, a cup 
or two of the marinade is used instead of the optional wine. The final sauce is 
highly seasoned with pepper. 


Sauce Venaison 


[Brown Sauce for Venison | 


This is sauce poivrade with 4 cup red currant jelly and d% cup whipping 
cream beaten into it just before serving. 


BROWN SAUCE (3) 


x JUS LIE 
[Starch-thickened Brown Sauce | 


Jus lié is a most useful alternative to the preceding long-simmered brown 
sauces, and takes about 5 minutes to prepare. But it has no culinary interest 
whatsoever if it is not made with an excellent base, as it is only stock thickened 
with cornstarch or arrowroot. The sauce is usually made with the liquids ob- 
tained from the simmering or stewing of meats, and therefore acquires a good, 
strong flavor. If it is made from canned bouillon, the bouillon should first be 
simmered with wine and seasonings as described under meat stocks on page 
67. Cornstarch 1s the thickening for ordinary brown sauces of this type. Arrow- 
root is used when the sauce is to be very clear and limpid, such as that for the 
ham braised in Madeira on page 393, or the duck with orange, page 276.°~ 
(Potato starch and rice starch are French equivalents of cornstarch.) 

For 2 cups 


BROWN SAUCES 


2 Tb cornstarch or arrow- 
root 

cups of excellent brown 
stock, or canned beef 
bouillon simmered with 
wine and seasonings, page 
67 

A 4-cup saucepan 

A wire whip 


D 


Optional: 1⁄4 cup Madeira, 
port, or cognac 


7i 


Blend the cornstarch or arrowroot with 2 tablespoons 


of cold stock, then beat in the rest of the stock. Sim- 
mer for 5 minutes, or-until sauce has cleared and is 
lightly thickened. Correct seasoning. 


Add optional wine or cognac, and simmer for 2 to 3 
minutes, tasting, until the alcohol has evaporated. 
(*) Sauce may be set aside, and reheated when 
needed. 


SAUCES DERIVED FROM BROWN SAUCE 


Following are some of the principal composed sauces which are made with 


any of the three preceding brown sauces. They are almost always combined 
with the cooking juices of the dishes they accompany, and thereby pick up 


additional flavor. 


Sauce Diable 


[Peppery Brown Sauce] 


For: broiled chicken, roast or braised pork, pork chops, hot meat left- 


overs 


A 4-cup saucepan or your 
meat-cooking pan with its 
degreased juices 

1 to 2 Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 

1 Tb butter or cooking fat 

1 cup dry white wine or 73 
cup dry white vermouth 


2 cups brown sauce (pages 
67 to 71) 

Black pepper 

Cayenne pepper 


Cook the shallots or green onions slowly with the 


butter or cooking fat for 2 minutes without brown- 
ing. Then add the wine and boil it down rapidly until 
it has reduced to 3 or 4 tablespoons. 


Pour in the sauce and simmer for 2 minutes. Season 
with enough pepper to give it a spicy taste. 


72 CHAPTER TWO: SAUCES 


z to 3 Tb softened butter Off heat, and just before serving, swirl butter into the 
2 to 3 Tb fresh minced sauce a bit at a time. Stir in the parsley or herbs. 


parsley or mixed green 
herbs 





Sauce Piquante 


[Brown Sauce with Pickles and Capers] ` 


For: roast or braised pork, pork chops, boiled or braised tongue, boiled 
beef, and hot meat leftovers 
The preceding sauce diable plus: 


2 Tb finely chopped pickles Just before removing the sauce from heat, stir in the 
2 Tb capers pickles and capers. Simmer a moment, then, off heat, 
beat in the butter and herbs. 


Sauce Robert 
[Brown Mustard Sauce] 


For: roast or braised pork, pork chops, boiled beef, broiled chicken, or 
turkey, hot meat leftovers, hamburgers 


A heavy-bottomed, 6-cup Cook the onions slowly with the butter and oil or fat, 
saucepan or your meat- for 10 to 15 minutes until they are tender and lightly 
cooking pan with its de- browned. 
greased juices 

14 cup finely minced yellow 
onions 

x Tb butter 

a tsp oil or cooking fat 


z cup dry white wine or % Add the wine and boil it down rapidly until it has 
cup dry vermouth reduced to 3 or 4 tablespoons. 


2 cups brown sauce, pages Add the brown sauce and simmer 10 minutes. Correct 
67 to 71 seasoning. 





3 to 4 Tb Dijon-type pre- Off heat and just before serving, beat the mustard 
pared mustard creamed mixture into the sauce, tasting. Beat in the parsley, 
with 2 or 3 Tb softened and serve. 
butter and % tsp sugar = 

2 to 3 Tb fresh minced e 
parsley 


BROWN SAUCES 74 





Sauce Brune aux Fines Herbes 
Sauce Brune à l’Estragon j 


[Brown Herb or Tarragon Sauce] 


For: sautéed chicken, veal, rabbit, braised vegetables, hot meat leftovers, 
and poached or baked eggs 


A 2- to 3-cup enameled Place all the ingredients in the saucepan and boil 
saucepan slowly for 10 minutes, reducing the wine to 2 or 3 
1 cup dry white wine or 74 tablespoons. This is now an herb essence. 
cup dry white vermouth 
2 Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 
4 Tb fresh herbs or 2 Tb 
dried herbs as follows: 
parsley, basil, chervil, rose- 
mary, oregano, and tarra- 
gon only 


2 cups of brown sauce, pages Strain the herb essence into the brown sauce, pressing 
67 to 71 the juices out of the herbs. Simmer for 1 minute. 
A 6- to 8-cup saucepan 


1 to 3 Tb softened butter Off heat, and just before serving, beat the butter into 
2 to 3 Tb fresh minced the sauce by bits, then beat in the herbs. 

parsley, mixed green 

herbs, or tarragon 


Sauce Brune au Cari 


[Brown Curry Sauce] 


For: lamb, chicken, beef, rice, and egg dishes 


A heavy-bottomed, 8-cup Cook the onions slowly in the butter and oil for about 
saucepan 15 minutes, until they are tender and lightly browned. 
144 cups finely minced yel- 
low onions 
2 Tb butter 
1 tsp oil 


74 


3 to 4 Tb curry powder 


Optional: 2 cloves mashed 
garlic 


2 cups brown sauce, pages 


67 to 71 
2 to 3 tsp lemon juice 


1 to 3 Tb softened butter 
2 to 3 Tb fresh minced 
parsley 


CHAPTER TWO: SAUCES 


Blend in the curry powder and cook slowly for 1 
minute. 


Stir in the optional garlic and cook slowly for half a 


minute. 


Add the brown sauce and simmer for 10 minutes. 


Correct seasoning and add lemon juice to taste. 


Off heat, and just before serving, beat in the butter 
by hits. Stir in the parsley. 





Sauce Duxelles 


[Brown Mushroom Sauce] 


For: broiled or sautéed chicken, veal, rabbit, or for Egg dishes, hot meat 


leftovers, or pastas 


A heavy-bottomed, 8-cup 
saucepan 

14 lb. (x cup) finely minced 
fresh mushrooms or 
mushroom stems only 

2 Tb shallots or green onions 

* 1 Tb butter 

VY, Tb oil 


2 cup dry white wine or 14 
cup dry white vermouth 


1/2 cups brown sauce, pages 
67 to 71 
112 Tb tomato paste 


1 to 3 Tb softened butter 
3 to 4 Tb mixed green herbs 
or parsley 


Sauté the mushrooms with the shallots or onions in 
hot butter and oil for 4 to 5 minutes. 


Add the wine and boil it down rapidly until it has 


reduced almost completely. 


Stir in the brown sauce and tomato paste and simmer 
for 5 minutes. Correct seasoning. 


Off heat and just before serving, stir in the butter by. ' 


bits, then the herbs or parsley. 


BROWN SAUCES Fa) 


Sauce Chasseur 
[Brown Mushroom Sauce with Fresh Tomatoes, Garlic, and Herbs] 


For: same as preceding sauce duxelles 

Sauce chasseur is almost the same as sauce, duxelles, but a bit more hearty 
in flavor. The recipe for it is described in the Veal section under escalopes de 
veau chasseur on page 368. 


Sauce Madére 
| Brown Madeira Sauce] 


Sauce au Porto 
{| Brown Port-wine Sauce] 


For: filet of beef, or for ham, veal, chicken livers, and egg dishes, or to 
sauce a garniture for vol-au-vents 


¥ cup Madeira or port Boil the wine in the saucepan until it has reduced to 
A 6-cup saucepan about 3 tablespoons. 


2 cups excellent brown Add the brown sauce and simmer for a minute or 


sauce, pages 67 to 71 two. Taste carefully for seasoning and strength, add- 
Optional: 1 to 2 tsp meat ing meat glaze if you have it and feel it necessary. If 
glaze, page 110 more wine is needed, add it by tablespoons, simmer- 


3 to 4 Tb Madeira or port, if ing briefly to evaporate the alcohol. 
necessary 


2 to 3 Tb softened butter Off heat and just before serving, beat in the butter by 
bits. 





Sauce Périgueux 
[Brown Madeira Sauce with Truffles | 


For: filet of beef, fresh foie gras, ham, veal, egg dishes, and timbales 





The preceding sauce Madère Prepare the Madeira sauce as in the preceding recipe, 
2 to 4 diced canned truffles but add the truffle juice to reduce with the Madeira at 
and their juice the beginning. After flavoring the sauce, stir in the 
truffles and simmer for a minute. Off heat, beat the 

butter into the sauce just before serving. 


76 CHAPTER TWO: SAUCES 





OTHER BROWN SAUCES 


The following brown sauces are incorporated into HER in other parts 


of the book. 


Brown deglazing sauce 


This sauce is made by dissolving the coagulated cooking juices in a roast- 
ing or sautéing pan with wine or stock after the meat has been removed. The 
liquid is boiled down until it is syrupy. Off heat a lump of butter is swirled in to 
give the sauce a slight liaison. It is one of the most delicious, useful, and simple 
of all the brown sauces, and is described in countless recipes. A good illustration 
is the deglazing sauce for roast chicken, page 240. 

Sauce à l’Italienne, a brown sauce with ham, mushrooms, and herbs, as de- 
scribed under braised sweetbreads, page 411. The sauce may also be used for 
brains, sautéed liver, egg dishes, and pastas. 

Sauce Bordelaise, a red wine sauce with beef marrow, described in the Kidney 
section under rognons de veau à la bordelaise, page 419. The sauce is also good 
with steaks, hamburgers, and egg dishes. 

Sauce à l’Orange, a brown sauce with orange flavoring and orange peel, as 
described in the Duck section for canard à l'orange, page 276. The same sauce 
could also be used with baked ham or roast pork. 

Sauce Bourguignonne, a red wine sauce always accompanied by a garniture 
of bacon, mushrooms, and braised onions, as described under poached eggs 
à la bourguignonne on page 121. It also goes with sweetbreads or brains, 
sautéed beef, and chicken. Boeuf bourguignon and cog au vin are examples, 
pages 315 and 263. 





TOMATO SAUCES 
Sauces Tomate 
SAUCE TOMATE 


| Tomato Sauce] 


This good basic tomato sauce is served just as it is, or may be flavored with | 
herbs or combined with other sauces whenever you wish a tomato flavoring. 
It is at its best with fresh tomatoes, but canned tomatoes or canned tomato purée 


TOMATO SAUCES 


wU 


will also produce a good sauce. You will notice, during its simmering, that it 
really should cook for about an hour and a half to develop its full flavor. 


For about 214 cups 


A heavy-bottomed, 214- 
quart saucepan 

V4 cup each: finely diced 
carrots, onions, and celery 

2 Tb minced boiled ham; 
OR 2 Tb minced lean 
bacon, simmered for 10 
minutes in water, rinsed, 
and drained 

3 Tb butter 

1 Tb oil 


122 Tb flour 


1% cups boiling stock or 
canned beef bouillon 


2 lbs. (4 cups) chopped, ripe, 
red tomatoes which need 
not be peeled; OR 3 cups 
canned tomatoes; OR 
1144 cups canned tomato 
purée and 114 cups water 

14 tsp salt 

Vs tsp sugar 

2 unpeeled cloves garlic 

4 parsley sprigs 

14 bay leaf 

14 tsp thyme 


1 to 2 Tb tomato paste, if 
necessary 


a 


s 


Cook the vegetables and the ham or bacon slowly in 
the butter and oil for 10 minutes without letting them 
brown. 


Blend the flour into the ham and vegetables, and cook 


‘slowly for 3 minutes, stirring. 


Off heat, beat in the stock or bouillon. 


Stir in the tomatoes, salt, and sugar. Add the garlic 
and herbs. Simmer for 114 to 2 hours, skimming oc- 
casionally, and adding water if sauce reduces and 
thickens too much. You should end up with about 
2¥4 cups of rich, fairly thick sauce. 


Strain, pressing juice out of ingredients. Correct 
seasoning. Stir in 1 to 2 tablespoons of tomato paste if 
you feel the sauce lacks color, and simmer again for 
5 minutes. 

(*) If not used immediately, film surface with stock 
or a few drops of oil. May be refrigerated or frozen. 


78 


CHAPTER TWO: SAUCES 





COULIS DE TOMATES À LA PROVENÇALE 
[Fresh Tomato Purée with Garlic and:Herbs | 


For: broiled or boiled chicken, boiled beef, meat patties, hot meat left- 
overs, eggs, pastas, and pizzas .. 4 


Here is a thick, concentrated tomato sauce with real Mediterranean flavor. 


For about 2 cups 


A heavy-bottomed, 3-quart 
saucepan 

14 cup finely minced yellow 
onions 

2 Tb olive oil 


2 tsp flour 


3 lbs. ripe red tomatoes, 
peeled, seeded, juiced, and 
chopped, page 505 (about 
44 cups) 

¥4 tsp sugar 

2 cloves mashed garlic 

A medium herb bouquet: 4 
parsley sprigs, 1⁄2 bay leaf, 
and 1⁄4 tsp thyme tied in 
cheesecloth 

W% tsp fennel 

¥% tsp basil 

Small pinch of saffron 

Small pinch of coriander 

A 1-inch piece (1⁄4 tsp) dried 
orange peel 

14 tsp salt 


x to 2 Tb tomato paste, if 
necessary 
Salt and pepper 


Cook the onions and olive oil slowly together for 
about 10 minutes, until the onions are tender but not 
browned. 


Stir in the flour and cook slowly for 3 minutes with- 
out browning. 


Stir in the tomatoes, sugar, garlic, herbs, and season- 
ings. Cover pan and cook slowly for 10 minutes, so 
the tomatoes will render more of their juice. Then 
uncover and simmer for about half an hour, adding 
spoonfuls of tomato juice or water if the sauce be- 
comes so thick it risks scorching. The purée is done 
when it tastes thoroughly cooked and is thick enough 
to form a mass in the spoon. Remove herb bouquet. 
If necessary, stir in 1 or 2 tablespoons of tomato paste 
for color, and simmer 2 minutes. Correct seasoning. 
Strain the sauce if you wish. 

(*) May be refrigerated or frozen. 


HOLLANDAISE 79 





THE HOLLANDAISE FAMILY 


SAUCE HOLLANDAISE 


[Hollandaise Sauce: Egg Yolk and Butter Sauce flavored with Lemon 
Juice] 


Hollandaise sauce is made of warmed egg yolks flavored with lemon juice, 
into which butter is gradually incorporated to make a thick, yellow, creamy 
sauce. It is probably the most famous of all sauces, and is often the most 
dreaded, as the egg yolks can curdle and the sauce can turn. It is extremely easy 
and almost foolproof to make in the electric blender, and we give the recipe 
on page 81. But we feel it is of great importance that you learn how to make 
hollandaise by hand, for part of every good cook’s general knowledge is a 
thorough familiarity with the vagaries of egg yolks under all conditions, The 
following recipe takes about 5 minutes, and is almost as fast as blender 
hollandaise. It is only one of numerous methods for hollandaise, all of which 
accomplish the same result, that of forcing egg yolks to absorb butter and hold 
it in creamy suspension. 


TWO POINTS TO REMEMBER when making hollandaise by hand 


The heating and thickening of the egg yolks 

So that the egg yolks will thicken into a smooth cream, they must be 
heated slowly and gradually. Too sudden heat will make them granular. Over- 
cooking scrambles them. You may beat them over hot water or over low heat; 
it makes no difference as long as the process is slow and gentle. 

The butter 

Egg yolks will readily absorb a certain quantity of butter when it is fed 
to them gradually, giving them time to incorporate each addition before 
another is presented. When too much is added at a time, particularly at first, the 
sauce will not thicken. And if the total amount of butter is more than the yolks 
can absorb, the sauce will curdle. About 3 ounces of butter is the usual maxi- 
mum amount per yolk. But if you have never made hollandaise before, it is 
safer not to go over 2 ounces or 4 cup. 

For 1 to 113 cups hollandaise—serving 4 to 6 people 


6 to A ounces of butter (34 Cut the butter into pieces and melt it in the saucepan 
to I cup or 14 to 2 sticks) over moderate heat. Then set it aside. 
A small saucepan 


80 


À 4- to 6-cup, medium- 
weight, enameled or stain- 
less steel saucepan 

A wire whip 


3 egg yolks 


1 Tb cold water 
1 Tb lemon juice 
Big pinch of salt 


1 Tb cold butter 

A pan of cold water (to cool 
off the bottom of the 
saucepan if necessary) 


1 Tb cold butter 


The melted butter 


Salt and white pepper 
Drops of lemon juice 


CHAPTER TWO: SAUCES 


Beat the egg yolks for about 1 minute in the sauce- 
pan, or until they become thick and sticky. 


Add the water, lemon juice, and salt, and beat for 
half a minute more: 


Add the tablespoon of cold butter, but do not beat it 
in. Then place the saucepan over very low heat or 
barely simmering water and stir the egg yolks with a 
wire ‘whip until they slowly thicken into a smooth 
cream. This will take 1 to 2 minutes. If they seem to 
be thickening too quickly, or even suggest a lumpy 
quality, immediately plunge the bottom of the pan in 
cold water, beating the yolks to cool them. Then con- 
tinue beating over heat. The egg yolks have thick- 
ened enough when you can begin to see the bottom of 
the pan between strokes, and the mixture forms a 
light cream on the wires of the whip. 


Immediately remove from heat and beat in the cold 
butter, which will cool the egg yolks and stop their 
cooking. 


Then beating the egg yolks with a wire whip, pour 
on the melted butter by droplets or quarter-teaspoon- 
fuls until the sauce begins to thicken into a very 
heavy cream. Then pour the butter a little more 
rapidly. Omit the milky residue at the bottom of the 
butter pan. 


Season the sauce to taste with salt, pepper, and lemon 
juice. 


Keeping the sauce warm 


Hollandaise is served warm, not hot. If it is kept too warm, it will thin 
out or curdle. It can be held perfectly for an hour'or more near the very faint 
heat of a gas pilot light on the stove, or in a pan of lukewarm water. As hol- 
landaise made with the maximum amount of butter is difficult to hold, use the 


sauce just before serving. 


va 


minimum suggested in the recipe, then beat softened or tepid butter into the 


HOLLANDAISE Sr 


A restaurant technique 

A tablespoon or two of béchamel or velouté sauce, page 57, beaten into the 
hollandaise, or a teaspoon of cornstarch beaten into the egg yolks at the begin- 
ning, will help to hold a sauce that is to be kept warm for a long period of time. 

If the sauce is too thick 

Beat in 1 to 2 tablespoons of hot water, vegetable cooking liquid, stock, 
milk, or cream. 

If the sauce refuses to thicken 

If you have beaten in your butter too quickly, and the sauce refuses to 
thicken, it is easily remedied. Rinse out a mixing bowl with hot water. Put in 
a teaspoon of lemon juice and a tablespoon of the sauce. Beat with a wire whip 
for a moment until the sauce creams and thickens. Then beat in the rest of the 
sauce half a tablespoon at a time, beating until each addition has thickened 
in the sauce before adding the next. This always works. 

If the sauce curdles or separates—“turned sauce” 

If a finished sauce starts to separate, a tablespoon of cold water beaten into 
it will often bring it back. If not, use the preceding technique. 

Leftover hollandaise 

Leftover hollandaise may be refrigerated for a day or two, or may be 
frozen. It is fine as an enrichment for veloutés and béchamels; beat it into the 
hot white sauce off heat and a tablespoon at a time just before serving. 

If the leftover sauce is to be used again as a hollandaise, beat 2 tablespoons 
of it in a saucepan over very low heat or hot water. Gradually beat in the rest 
of the sauce by spoonfuls. 


Hollandaise Sauce Made in the Electric Blender 


This very quick method for making hollandaise cannot fail when you 
add your butter in a small stream of droplets. If the sauce refuses to thicken, 
pour it out, then pour it back into the whizzing machine in a thin stream of 
droplets. As the butter cools, it begins to cream and forms itself into a thick 
sauce. If you are used to handmade hollandaise, you may find the blender va- 
riety lacks something in quality; this is perhaps due to complete homogeniza- 
tion. But as the technique is well within the capabilities of an 8-year-old child, 
it has much to recommend it. 

For about 34 cup 


3 egg yolks Place egg yolks, seasonings, and 1 tablespoon lemon 
14 tsp salt juice in the blender jar. You can beat in more when 
Pinch of pepper sauce is done and will know what proportions you 


1 to 2 Tb lemon juice like for the next time. 


82 CHAPTER TWO: SAUCES 


4 ounces or 1 stick of butter Cut the butter into pieces and heat it to foaming hot 
in a small saucepan. 


A towel, if you do not have Cover the jar and blend the egg yolk mixture at top 
a splatterproof blender jar speed for 2 seconds. Uncover, and still blending at 
top speed, immediately start pouring on the hot but- 
ter in a thin stream of droplets. (You may need to 
protect yourself with a towel during this operation.) 
By the time two thirds of the butter has gone in, the 
sauce will be a thick cream. Omit the milky residue 
at the bottom of the butter pan. Taste the sauce, and 
blend in more seasonings if necessary. 
(*) If not used immediately, set the jar in tepid, but 
not warm, water. 


For More Sauce 


The amount of butter you can use in a blender is only half the amount the 
egg yolks could absorb if you were making the sauce by hand, when 3 egg yolks 
can take 8 to 9 ounces of butter rather than the 4 ounces in the preceding recipe. 
However, if you added more butter to the blender than the 4 ounces specified, 
the sauce would become so thick that it would clog the machine. To double 
your amount of sauce, then, pour it out of the blender jar into a saucepan or 
bowl and beat into it an additional 4 cup of melted butter, added in a stream 
of droplets. 





OTHER MEMBERS OF THE HOLLANDAISE 
FAMILY 


Except for the mousseline sabayon mentioned at the end of this section, 
all the other members of the family are made in exactly the same way as hol- 
landaise sauce. The basic flavorings may be vinegar and herbs instead of lemon 
juice, or concentrated white-wine fish stock, but the technique does not vary. 


Stirred-in Trimmings 
A plain hollandaise may have a number of trimmings such as the follow- 


ing stirred into it: 


HERBS 


For poached eggs or boiled fish, stir in a mixture of minced parsley, anes, 
and tarragon. 


HOLLANDAISE 83 


PURÉES AND MINCES 
From 2 to 3 tablespoons of puréed artichoke hearts, asparagus tips, or 
cooked shellfish stirred into a hollandaise make it a good sauce for egg dishes. 
Or use finely minced sautéed mushrooms—see the recipe for mushroom dux- 
elles on page 515. 


Hollandaise avec Blancs d'Oeufs 
[Hollandaise with Beaten Egg Whites] 
For: fish, soufflés, asparagus, egg dishes 


Stiffly beaten egg whites folded into hollandaise swell and lighten the 
sauce so that it may serve more people. 


2 or 3 stiffly beaten egg Just before serving, fold the egg whites into the 
whites, page 159 hollandaise. 
14 cups sauce hollandaise, 


page 79 


Sauce Mousseline 
Sauce Chantilly 
[Hollandaise with Whipped Cream] 


For: fish, soufflés, asparagus 


Y% cup chilled whipping Beat the chilled cream in a chilled bowl with a chilled 
cream beater as described on page 580. 


14 cups sauce hollandaise, Fold it into the hollandaise just before serving. 
page 79 





Sauce Maltaise 


[ Orange-flavored Hollandaise | 
For: asparagus or broccoli 


This sauce is made like an ordinary hollandaise except for the orange 


flavoring. Proceed as follows: 


84 


3 egg yolks 


x Tb lemon juice 

1 Tb orange juice 

Pinch of salt 

2 Tb cold butter 

13 to 73 cup melted butter 


2 to 4 Tb orange juice 
The grated peel of an 
orange 


CHAPTER TWO: SAUCES 


Beat the egg yolks until thickened, then beat in the 


liquids and salt. Add 1 tablespoon of cold butter, and 
thicken the mixture over low heat. Beat in the other 
tablespoon of cold butter, then the melted butter. 


Finish the sauce By beating in the orange juice by 


spoonfuls, then the orange peel. 


HOLLANDAISE SAUCES FOR FISH 


When a hollandaise type of sauce is to accompany filets of fish poached 
in white wine, or a fish soufflé, the fish-poaching liquid is boiled down to a 
concentrated essence, or fumet, and is used in place of lemon juice as a flavoring 


for the sauce. 


Sauce Vin Blanc 


[Hollandaise with White-wine Fish Fumet] 


1 cup white-wine fish stock 


Ingredients for the sauce 
hollandaise, page 79, 
omitting lemon juice and 
water 


Boil down the fish stock until it has reduced to 3 


tablespoons. This is now a fumet de poisson. Allow it 
to cool. 


Proceed with the hollandaise as usual, substituting 
the fish fumet for the lemon juice and water. 





Sauce Mousseline Sabayon 


[Hollandaise with Cream and White-wine Fish Fumet] 


The recipe for this extremely good sauce, in which the egg yolks are thick- 
ened with cream and fish fumet, is on page 169 under soufflé de poisson. 





* Sauce Béarnaise 


[Béarnaise Sauce | 


For: steaks, boiled or fried fish, broiled chicken, egg dishes, timbales 
Béarnaise sauce differs from hollandaise only in taste and strength; in- 


HOLLANDAISE 85 


stead of lemon juice, its basic flavoring is a reduction of wine, vinegar, shallots, 
pepper, and tarragon. The techniques for making the two sauces are similar. 
For 112 cups 





V4 cup wine vinegar - Boil the vinegar, wine, shallots or onions, herbs, and 
Y% cup dry white wine or seasonings over moderate heat until the liquid has 
dry white vermouth _ reduced to 2 tablespoons. Let it cool. 


t Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 

1 Tb minced fresh tarragon 
or 1 Tb dried tarragon 

Ye tsp pepper 

Pinch of salt 

A small saucepan 


3 egg yolks Then proceed as though making a hollandaise, page 
2 Tb cold butter 79. Beat the egg yolks until thick. Strain in the vine- 


12 to % cup melted butter gar mixture and beat. Add 1 tablespoon of cold but- 
2 Tb fresh minced tarragon ter and thicken the egg yolks over low heat. Beat in 
or parsley the other tablespoon of cold buitter, then the melted 
butter by droplets. Correct seasoning, and beat in the 

tarragon or parsley. 


VARIATIONS 
The two following sauces are also for steaks, fish, chicken, and eggs. 
Sauce Choron 
[ Tomato-flavored Béarnaise] 


z to 4 Tb tomato paste or Beat the tomato by tablespoons into the sauce 
purée béarnaise and correct seasoning. 


1% cups sauce béarnaise 





Sauce Colbert 
[Béarnaise with Meat Glaze] 


1 to 14 Tb meat glaze, Stir the melted meat glaze into the sauce béarnaise. 


page 110, melted in 1 
Tb white wine 
14 cups sauce béarnaise 


86 CHAPTER TWO: SAUCES 





THE MAYONNAISE FAMILY 


MAYONNAISE 
[Mayonnaise: Egg Yolk and Oil Sauce] 


Mayonnaise like hollandaise is a process of forcing egg yolks to absorb a 
fatty substance, oil in this case, and to hold it in thick and creamy suspension. 
But as the egg yolks do not have to be warmed, the sauce is that much simpler 
to make than hollandaise. You can make it by machine in a blender, although 
the processor produces a larger and better sauce. Either way it is almost 
automatic, and takes no skill whatsoever. Mayonnaise done by hand or with an 
electric beater requires familiarity with egg yolks. And again, as with hollan- 
daise, you should be able to make it by hand as part of your general mastery 
of the egg yolk. It is certainly far from difficult once you understand the proc- 
ess, and after you have done it a few times, you should easily and confidently 
be able to whip together a quart of sauce in less than 10 minutes. 


POINTS TO REMEMBER when making mayonnaise by hand 


Temperature 

Mayonnaise is easiest to make when all ingredients are at normal room 
temperature. Warm the mixing bowl in hot water to take the chill off the egg 
yolks. Heat the oil to tepid if it is cold. 

Egg Yolks 

Always beat the egg yolks for a minute or two before adding anything to 
them. As soon as they are thick and sticky, they are ready to absorb the oil. 

Adding the Oil 

The oil must be added very slowly at first, in droplets, until the emulsion 
process begins and the sauce thickens into a heavy cream. After this, the oil 
may be incorporated more rapidly. 

Proportions 

The maximum amount of oil one U.S. Large egg yolk will absorb is 6 
ounces or 7 cup. When this maximum is exceeded, the binding properties of 
the egg yolks break down, and the sauce thins out or curdles. If you have never... 
made mayonnaise before, it is safest not to exceed 1 cup of oil per egg yolk. 
Here is a table giving proportions for varying amounts of sauce: 


MAYONNAISE 87 
Number of Vinegar and/or Amount of 
Egg Yolks Cups of Oil Lemon Juice Finished Sauce 
2 I to 1% cups 2 to 3 Tb 1% to 1% cups 
3 112 to 214 cups 3 to 5 Tb 2 to 234 cups 
4 2 to 3 cups 4 to 6 Tb 212 to 3% cups 
6 3 to 4% cups 6 to 10 Tb 3% to 5% cups 


For 2 to 234 Cups of Hand-beaten Mayonnaise 


Note: The following directions are for a hand-beaten sauce. Exactly the 
same system is followed for an electric beater. Use the large bowl, and the 
moderately fast speed for whipping cream. Continually push the sauce into 
the beater blades with a rubber scraper. 


A round-bottomed, 21⁄2- to 


3 


3-quart glazed pottery, 
glass, or stainless-steel 
mixing bowl. Set it in a 
heavy casserole or sauce- 
pan to keep it from slip- 
ping. 

egg yolks 


A large wire whip 


1 Tb wine vinegar or lemon 


juice 


12 tsp salt 
14 tsp dry or prepared mus- 


tard 


12 to 2% cups of olive oil, 


salad oil, or a mixture of 
each. If the oil is cold, 
heat it to tepid; and if you 
are a novice, use the 


minimum amount. 


Warm the bow! in hot water. Dry it. Add the egg 


yolks and beat for 1 to 2 minutes until they are thick 
and sticky. 


Add the vinegar or lemon juice, salt, and mustard. 


Beat for 30 seconds more. 


The egg yolks are now ready to receive the oil, and 
while it goes in, drop by drop, you must not stop 
beating until the sauce has thickened. A speed of 2 
strokes per second is fast enough. You can switch 
hands or switch directions, it makes no difference as 
long as you beat constantly. Add the drops of oil with 
a teaspoon, or rest the lip of the bottle on the edge of 
the bowl. Keep your eye on the oil rather than on the 
sauce. Stop pouring and continue beating every 10 
seconds or so, to be sure the egg yolks are absorbing 
the oil. After 14 to 4 cup of oil has been incorporated, 
the sauce will thicken into a very heavy cream and the 
crisis is over. The beating arm may rest a moment. 


88 CHAPTER TWO: SAUCES 


Then beat in the remaining oil by 1 to 2 tablespoon 
dollops, blending it thoroughly after each addition. 


Drops of wine vinegar or When the sauce becomes too thick and stiff, beat in 
lemon juice as needed drops of vinegar or lemon juice to thin it out. Then 
continue with the oil. 


ne 
2 Tb boiling water Beat the boiling water into the sauce. This is an anti- 
Vinegar, lemon juice, salt, curdling insurance. Season to taste. 

pepper, and mustard 


If the sauce is not used immediately, scrape it into a 
small bowl and cover it closely so a skin will not form 
on Ìts surface. 


REMEDY FOR TURNED MAYONNAISE 


You will never have trouble with freshly made mayonnaise if you have 
beaten the egg yolks thoroughly in a warmed bowl before adding the oil, if the 
oil has been added in droplets until the sauce has commenced to thicken, and 
if you have not exceeded the maximum proportions of 34 cup of oil per egg 
yolk. A mayonnaise has turned when it refuses to thicken, or, in a finished 
mayonnaise, when the oil releases itself from suspension and the sauce curdles. 
In either case, the remedy is simple. 

Warm a mixing bowl in hot water. Dry it. Add 1 teaspoon of prepared 
mustard and 1 tablespoon of sauce. Beat with a wire whip for several seconds 
until they cream and thicken together. Beat in the rest of the sauce by teaspoons, 
thickening each addition before adding the next. This always works. Just be 
sure you add the turned sauce a little bit at a time, particularly at first. 


REFRIGERATION 


After several days under refrigeration, mayonnaise has a tendency to thin 
out, especially if it is stirred before it comes to room temperature. If it does 
turn, bring it back using the preceding system. 


Mayonnaise Made in the Electric Blender or Food Processor 


Mayonnaise in the blender takes a whole egg whirled with a pinch of 
mustard and salt for 30 seconds, then a tablespoon of lemon juice whirled an> 
other ro seconds, and finally, with the machine at full speed, in goes a thin 
stream of oil, about a cupful. Add more, and the machine clogs. You scrape it 


MAYONNAISE 89 


out, your rubber spatula impaling itself on the sharp-pointed blade, and you 
get less than the 14 cups of mayonnaise you should have because part of it 
remains plastered in the machine. It’s mayonnaise, all right, but the processor 
makes more sauce of a better quality. Here’s how: 


For about 2 cups of mayonnaise in the food processor 


(with steel blade) 
1 egg and 2 yolks Process the egg and the yolks for 1 minute. 
14 tsp dry mustard With the machine running, add the mustard, salt, and 
1 tsp salt 1 teaspoon of lemon juice or vinegar. 


Fresh lemon juice and/or 
wine vinegar 


2 cups best quality oil—olive With the machine still running, start adding the oil 
oil and/or salad oil in a stream of droplets, continuing until you have used 
More salt, pepper, and half the oil and the sauce is very thick—do not stop 
lemon juice or vinegar as processing until sauce has thickened. Thin out with 
needed lemon juice or vinegar, then continue with the oil. 
Season carefully with more salt, pepper, and lemon 

juice or vinegar. 


MAYONNAISE VARIATIONS 


Mayonnaise aux Fines Herbes 
{Mayonnaise with Green Herbs] 


For: hors d’oeuvres, eggs, fish, meats 
3 to 4 Th of fresh, minced If the sauce is to be kept for several days, blanch the 


green herbs, such as herbs for 1 minute in boiling water. Drain, run cold 
tarragon, basil, chervil, water over them, and pat dry with a towel. The herbs 


chives, parsley, oregano will look greener, and will not turn sour in the sauce. 
1% cups mayonnaise, page Stir them into the mayonnaise. 
86 or 88 





Mayonnaise Verte 
[Green Herbal Mayonnaise ] 


For: hors d’oeuvres, eggs, fish, meats 





Ingredients for about 4 Tb Bring 1 cup of water to the boil in a small saucepan. 
of herb purée: Add the spinach and shallots or onions and boil 2 


90 


8 to 10 spinach leaves 

2 Tb chopped shallots or 
green onions 

14 cup water-cress leaves 

14 cup parsley leaves 

1 Tb fresh tarragon or 1⁄2 
Tb dried tarragon 

Optional: 2 Tb fresh chervil 


Ingredients for 14 cups of 
mayonnaise, page 86 or 


88 


CHAPTER TWO: SAUCES 


minutes. Then add the rest of the ingredients and boil 
I minute more. Strain, run cold water over the herbs, 
and pat dry with a towel. 


If you are making the mayonnaise in an electric 
blender, add the herbs to the blender with the egg, 
then proceed as usual. For a handmade mayonnaise, 
either purée the herbs in a blender, or chop them into 
a purée and force them through a sieve, then stir the 
herbs into the finished sauce. 





Sauce Riviera 


Beurre Montpellier 


[Green Mayonnaise with Butter or Cream Cheese, Pickles, Capers, and 


Anchovies | 


For: hors d’oeuvres, sandwich spreads, eggs, fish, and as a spread for cold 


sliced veal, beef, or pork 
For about 244 cups 


2 Tb each: sour pickles, 
capers, and canned ancho- 
vies or anchovy paste 

12 cup softened butter or 
cream cheese 

The preceding mayonnaise 
verte 


Chop the pickles, capers, and anchovies into a very 
fine mince, then cream them with the butter or cheese. 
Beat the mixture, a tablespoon at a time, into the 
green mayonnaise. 





Sauce Tartare 


[Hard Yolk Mayonnaise | 


The yolks of hard-boiled eggs will also absorb oil and turn into a mayen 
naise, but with its own characteristic taste and consistency. When sieved egg 
whites are beaten into it, the sauce acquires a nice lightness and body which 


MAYONNAISE OI 


makes it useful for spooning over cold foods. This sauce cannot be made in an 
electric blender; it becomes so stiff the machine clogs. 
For 113 to 2 cups 


3 hard-boiled egg yolks Pound and mash the egg yolks in a mixing bowl with 
1 Tb prepared mustard the mustard and salt until you have a very smooth 
14 tsp salt ' paste. Unless the yolks are smooth and free from 


lumps, they will not absorb the oil. 





1 cup oil Proceed as for regular mayonnaise, page 86, beat- 
Wine vinegar or lemon ing in the oil by droplets at first until the sauce has 
juice as needed thickened, and thinning out with vinegar or lemon 


juice as necessary. 


3 to 4 Tb minced sour Twist the minced pickles and capers into a ball in the 
pickles corner of a towel to extract their juice. Beat them 
3 to 4 Tb minced capers gradually into the sauce. Then beat in the herbs, and 
2 to 4 Tb minced fresh finally the optional egg whites. Correct seasoning. 
green herbs such as pars- 
ley, chives, tarragon 
Optional: 2 or 3 sieved hard- 
boiled egg whites 





Sauce Rémoulade 
{Mayonnaise with Anchovies, Pickles, Capers, and Herbs] 


With the addition of half a teaspoon or so of anchovy paste, sauce rémou- 
lade has the same flavorings as sauce tartare, but it is a regular mayonnaise 
rather than one made with hard yolks. 


Mayonnaise Collée 
| Gelatin Mayonnaise — for Decorating Cold Dishes] 


When gelatin is dissolved and congealed in mayonnaise, the sauce will 
hold its shape and can be used for coating cold eggs, fish, and vegetables, or 
may be squeezed out of a pastry bag to make fancy decorations. 


For about 134 cups 
(This is the correct consistency for coating cold foods with a spoon. If the 


mayonnaise is to be forced through a pastry bag, it must be stiffer; you would 
use 2 tablespoons of gelatin dissolved in 4 cup of liquid then beaten into 2 


cups of mayonnaise.) 


92 


1% cup of liquid as follows: 

2 Tb white wine or white 
vermouth 

1 Tb wine vinegar 

21⁄2 Tb chicken-, beef-, or 
fish-stock 

1 Tb (x envelope) gelatin 


1/2 cups mayonnaise, page 


86 or 88 


CHAPTER TWO: SAUCES 


Pour the liquid into a small saucepan. Sprinkle the 
gelatin on it and let it dissolve for several minutes. 
Then stir the mixture over low heat until the gelatin 
is completely free of granules. Let it cool to tepid. 


Beat the gelatin mixture gradually into the mayon- 
naise. Correct seasoning. The sauce will thin out, then 
gradually thicken as the gelatin sets. 


Use it just before it sets. If it becomes too stiff, stir it 
briefly over gentle heat. 





Sauce Aïoli 


[Provencal Garlic Mayonnaise | 


For: boiled fish, especially cod, bourride (Provençal fish soup), snails, 


boiled potatoes, green beans, and hard-boiled eggs 

This rich, thick mayonnaise with its fine garlic flavor must be made in a 
fairly traditional way if it is to have its correct taste and consistency. The garlic 
should be pounded in a mortar until it is mashed into a very smooth paste. You 
cannot make it successfully in an electric blender because for some unfortunate 
reason the garlic acquires a raw and bitter taste, and the egg white required for 
blender-made sauce does not produce the fine, heavy texture that is character- 
istic of a proper Mediterranean aioli. 

For about 2 cups 


x slice—% inch thick—of 
stale, white homemade- 
type bread 


3 Tb milk or wine vinegar 


Remove crusts and break the bread into a small bowl. 
Stir in the milk or vinegar and let the bread soak for 
5 to 10 minutes into a soft pulp. Twist the bread into 
a ball in the corner of a towel to extract the liquid. 





a 


Place the bread and garlic in the bowl and pound with 
the pestle for at least 5 minutes to mash the garlic and 
bread into a very, very smooth paste. 


A heavy bowl or mortar 
A wooden pestle 
4 to 8 cloves mashed garlic 


sas 


We 


Pound in the egg yolk and salt until the mixture is 
thick and sticky. 


1 egg yolk 
V4 tsp salt 


MAYONNAISE 


1¥ cups good olive oil 
A wire whip 


3 to 4 Tb boiling water or 


fish stock 


2 to 3 Tb lemon juice 


Fish Soup Note 


95 


Then, drop by drop, pound and blend in the olive oil. 


When the sauce has thickened into a heavy cream, you 
may switch from a pestle to a wire whip and add the 


oil a little bit faster. Thin out the sauce as necessary 


with drops of water or stock, and lemon juice. Sauce 
should remain quite heavy, so it holds its shape in a 
spoon. Correct seasoning. 





Nore: If the sauce turns or curdles, you can recon- 
stitute it by following the directions for turned may- 
onnaise on page 88, 


If the aiolz is to be stirred into a fish soup, more egg yolks are used, usually 


one per person. 


Sauce Alsacienne 


Sauce de Sorges 


[Herbal Mayonnaise Made with Soft-boiled Eggs] 


For: hot boiled beef, chicken, or fish 


For about 2 cups 


2 eggs 


1 Tb prepared mustard 

12 tsp salt 

1 Tb wine vinegar or lemon 
juice 

1 cup oil 


14 cup whipping cream, sour 
cream, or beef, chicken, or 
fish stock 

122 Tb finely minced shallot 
or green onions 

114 Tb capers 

3 to 4 Tb minced parsley, 


Boil the eggs for 3 minutes (31% if they are chilled). 


Place the yolks in a mixing bowl and put the whites— 
which should be just set—aside. 


Proceed as for making mayonnaise, page 86, beating 


the yolks until they are thick and sticky, then beating 
in the mustard, salt, and vinegar or lemon juice. 
Finally beat in the oil, drop by drop at first. 


Gradually beat the additional liquid into the sauce. 


Beat in the rest of the ingredients. Season to taste. 


94 CHAPTER TWO: SAUCES 


tarragon, basil, etc.; or 
dill only 

The soft-boiled egg whites, 
chopped or seived 





OIL AND VINEGAR SAUCES 
Vinaigrettes 


x SAUCE VINAIGRETTE 
[French Dressing | 


For: salads and simple marinades 

The basic French dressing of France is a mixture of good wine vinegar, 
good oil, salt, pepper, fresh green herbs in season, and mustard if you like it. 
Garlic is employed usually only in southern France. Worcestershire, curry, 
cheese, and tomato flavorings are not French additions, and sugar is heresy. 

The usual proportion of vinegar to oil is one to three, but you should 
establish your own relationship. Lemon juice or a mixture of lemon and vine- 
gar may be used, and the oil may be a tasteless salad oil, or olive oil. For salads, 
make the dressing in the empty bowl or a jar, so that all ingredients are well 
blended and flavored before the salad is mixed with the dressing. And be sure 
the salad greens are perfectly dry so the dressing will adhere to the leaves. Salad 
dressings are always best when freshly made; if they stand around for several 
days they tend to acquire a rancid taste. 

For about 1 cup 


1, to 2 Tb good wine vine- Either beat the vinegar or lemon juice in a bowl with 
gar or a mixture of vine- the salt and optional mustard until the salt is dis- 


gar and lemon juice solved, then beat in the oil by droplets, and season 
14 tsp salt with pepper, or place all ingredients in a screw-top jar 
Optional: 1⁄4 tsp dry mus- and shake vigorously for 30 seconds to blend thor- 
tard oughly. 


6 Tb salad oil or olive oil 
Big pinch of pepper 


Optional: 1 to 2 Tb minced Stir in the optional herbs and correct seasoning just | 
green herbs, such as pars- before dressing the salad. e 
ley, chives, tarragon, basil; l 
or pinch of dried herbs. 


FRENCH DRESSING 95 





VARIATIONS 
Sauce Ravigote 
[Vinaigrette with Herbs, Capers, and Onion] 


For: cold or hot boiled beef, boiled chicken, boiled fish, pig’s feet, calf’s 
head, and vegetables 


oo 





I cup vinaigrette, page 94 Stir all the ingredients into the vinaigrette and taste 
1 tsp chopped capers for seasoning. 
I tsp very finely minced 
shallot or green onions 
2 Tb minced fresh green 
herbs, parsley, chives, 
tarragon, chervil, or pars- 


ley only 


Vinaigrette à la Crème 


[Sour Cream Dressing—Dill Sauce] 


For: cold eggs, vegetables, and cold or hot fish 


1 egg yolk Beat the egg yolk and cream in a bowl until thor- 
4 Tb whipping cream or oughly blended. Then beat in the vinaigrette in a 
sour cream stream of droplets as though making a mayonnaise. 


1, cup vinaigrette, page 94 Season to taste with lemon juice, and stir in the herbs. 


Lemon juice to taste 

2 Tb minced fresh green 
herbs, parsley, chives, 
tarragon, chervil, burnet, 
or just dill 


Sauce Moutarde 
[Cold Mustard Sauce with Herbs] 


For: cold beef, pork, and vegetables 


96 CHAPTER TWO: SAUCES 


2 Tb prepared mustard, Rinse a small mixing bowl in hot water. Add the 
preferably the strong mustard and beat with a wire whip, adding the water 
Dijon type by droplets. 

3 Tb boiling water 


14 to 2 cup olive oil or salad Again by droplets, beat in the olive oil to make a 


oil thick, creamy sauce. 
—— ee 
Salt and pepper Beat in salt, pepper, and lemon juice to taste. Then 
Lemon juice beat in the herbs. 


1 to 2 Tb parsley or minced 
fresh green herbs 





HOT BUTTER SAUCES 
Sauces au Beurre 


* BEURRE BLANC-BEURRE NANTAIS 
[White Butter Sauce] 


For: boiled fish originally, but now for all kinds of fish and shellfish, and 
vegetables such as asparagus, broccoli, cauliflower, as well as for sautés of veal, 
chicken, kidneys, livers, and so forth. 

This famous sauce originated in Nantes, on the Loire River, and is tradi- 
tionally served with pike, brochet au beurre blanc. Warm, thick, creamy, and 
butter-colored, the original sauce is only butter creamed with shallots, wine 
vinegar, lemon, and seasonings. The idea was taken up by nouvelle cuisine chefs 
in the early seventies because it is a far easier sauce system than the long- 
simmered classics, and it is delicious with so many dishes. Rather than a lemon 
and vinegar base, you use a strong reduction of fish or meat juices—the residue, 
for instance, of sautéed chicken livers or foie gras deglazed with wine and 
shallots and, perhaps, a dash of wine vinegar all reduced almost to a syrup; 
this is then enriched by the beating in of a large quantity of butter. It is, in 
fact, the usual buttered deglazing sauce, but rather than beating in 2 or 3 
tablespoons of butter for 4 to 6 servings, you might add as much as half a 
pound. With butter at 100 calories per tablespoon, an otherwise simple sauté 
can be marvelously yet astronomically (even lethally) fattening; but, as we 
imply in most of our recipes, “the amount of butter is up to you.” A 

The trick in making a beurre blanc is to prevent the butter from turning 
oily like melted butter; it must retain its warm, thick, creamy consistency. A 


HOT BUTTER SAUCES 97 


chemical process takes place once the base is boiled down and the acids are 
well concentrated so that the milk solids remain in suspension rather than 
sinking to the bottom of the pan. We give two methods here, first the classic 
way where the butter. is slowly creamed in, and second the newer fast-boil 
system. In either case you may beat in more butter than the amount given, but 
if you beat in less you may have too acid-tasting a sauce. 


For about 1 cup 


_ The flavor base 
A 6cup medium-weight, Boil the liquid, shallots or onions, and seasonings 
stainless saucepan with the butter until reduced to a syrupy consistency 


2/2 Tb white-wine vinegar —about 114 tablespoons should remain. 
2/2 Tb dry white wine, ver- 

mouth, or lemon juice 
1 Tb very finely minced 

shallots or green onions 


Y, tsp salt 
V8 tsp white pepper 
2 Tb butter 
The butter—Added the classic way 
A wire whip Remove saucepan from heat and immediately beat in 


8 ounces (2 sticks) best qual- 2 pieces of chilled butter. As the butter softens and 
ity unsalted butter, well creams in the liquid, beat in another piece. Then set 
chilled, and cut into 16 the saucepan over very low heat and, beating con- 


pieces stantly, continue adding successive pieces of butter as 
Salt, pepper, and lemon each previous piece has almost creamed into the sauce. 
juice as needed The sauce will be thick and ivory-colored, the con- 


sistency of a light hollandaise. Immediately remove 
from heat as soon as all the butter has been used. Beat 
in additional seasonings to taste. 


OR—Adding butter—T he fast-boil way 

Make the same flavor base described above, and cut the same amount of 
butter into pieces; however, the butter need not be chilled. Bring the reduced 
flavor base to the fast boil and start beating in butter piece by piece—it will at 
once produce thick creamy bubbles. When all the butter has been added, boil 
for 2 seconds only and pour the sauce into a bowl or another saucepan to stop 
the cooking. (If you continue boiling you will reduce the sauce base liquid to 
nothing and the butter will quickly clarify itself—no more creamy sauce.) 

Holding the sauce. It will thin out and turn oily almost at once if you 
reheat it or if you keep it too warm. Hold it over barely tepid water, or place 


98 CHAPTER TWO: SAUCES 


it near the faint heat of a gas pilot light, or on the slightly warm shelf over 
a cooktop. If it does thin out, cream it by beating a spoonful of sauce in a cold 
mixing bowl, gradually beat in the rest by very small spoonfuls; reheat it by 
beating in dribbles (2 to 3 tablespoons in all) of hot liquid such as wine, con- 
centrated meat juices, or heavy cream. 





VARIATION 
Beurre au Citron 


[Lemon Butter Sauce] 


For: broiled or boiled fish, asparagus, broccoli, cauliflower 
A minor variation of beurre blanc, and very nice with fish or vegetables. 
For about 12 cup 


A 2- to 4-cup, medium- Boil down the lemon juice with the salt and pepper 
weight, enameled sauce- until it has reduced to 1 tablespoon. 
pan 

14 cup lemon juice 

Ye tsp salt 


Pinch of white pepper po 

A wire whip Remove from heat and immediately beat in 2 pieces 

4 ounces (1 stick) chilled of chilled butter. Set over very low heat and beat in 
butter cut into 5 pieces the rest of the butter, a piece at a time, to make a 


thick, creamy sauce. Immediately remove from heat. 


2 to 3 Tb hot fish or vege- Just before serving, beat in the hot liquid by driblets 
table stock or hot water to warm the sauce. Correct seasoning and serve in a 
barely warmed sauceboat. 





BEURRE NOIR-BEURRE NOISETTE 


[Brown Butter Sauce] 


For: shirred eggs, calf’s brains, boiled or sautéed fish, chicken breasts, 
vegetables 

A properly made brown butter sauce has a deliciously nutty smell and 
taste, but is never black despite the poesy of the title. When you heat butter to 
the boil, its milk solids begin to darken from golden nutty, noisette, to golden 
brown, noir, but you never let it darken to black, burned, and bitter. It is a» 
quick sauce, and you can make it right in the pan when you are serving it 
over browned foods like liver or sautéed chicken breasts. For pale foods like 


HOT BUTTER SAUCES 99 


poached eggs or poached calf’s brains, make it separately and pour the browned 
butter off the dark sediment in the pan. 
For about 34 cup, serving 6 to 8 

6 ounces (112 sticks) butter 
Salt and pepper 
3 to 4 Tb fresh minced 

parsley 
3 to 4 Tb wine vinegar or 

lemon juice, or 1 to 2 Tb 

capers 


Making the sauce in the sauté pan—just before serving 


Cut the butter into pieces, and add to pan after food has been sautéed and removed. 
Salt and pepper food if necessary, and sprinkle the parsley over it. Holding sauté 


pan by handle, swirl over moderate heat as butter foams up; it will begin to color 
as foam subsides. At the moment the butter is a nutty brown—a matter of seconds— 
pour it over the food. Then add the vinegar, lemon juice or capers to the pan, 
rapidly boil down to reduce excess acidity, pour over the brown butter, and serve 
at once. 


Making the sauce separately—may be done in advance 


Cut the butter into pieces and add to a small saucepan. Swirl pan by its handle 
over moderate heat as butter melts and foams up. Continue cooking for a few 


seconds as foam subsides and butter starts to color. As soon as it is a nutty brown, 
remove from heat and let sediment settle for a moment. Either pour clear brown 
butter over hot food that you have seasoned and sprinkled with parsley, or pour 
the butter off its sediment and into a bowl or another pan. Rinse out butter pan, 
add vinegar, lemon juice or capers, and boil down rapidly to reduce excess acidity. 
Either pour over the food and serve; or pour the browned butter back in, set aside, 
and reheat before serving. 





COLD FLAVORED BUTTERS 


Beurres Composés 


Butter can be put to a variety of appetizing uses when it has been creamed 
with herbs, wine, mustard, egg yolks, shellfish meat, or other flavorings. 


On Hot Dishes: Place a piece of cold flavored butter on top of grilled 
fish or meat just as it is sent to the table. 


For Basting: Baste meat, fish, or mushrooms with flavored butter as it 
cooks in oven. 


100 CHAPTER TWO: SAUCES 


Sauce and Soup Enrichment: Stir flavored butter into a sauce or soup 
just before serving. 


Egg Filling or Sandwich Spread: Cream butter, egg yolks, and herbs 
together and use as a filling for hard-boiled eggs, or as a sandwich spread. 


Decorations: Fill a pastry bag with chilled but still malleable flavored 
butter and squeeze it out in fancy designs to decorate appetizers or cold dishes. 


Cutout Designs: Spread flavored butter on a plate and chill it. Then dip 
a knife or cutter in hot water and form fancy shapes for canapés or cold dishes. 





HOW TO CREAM BUTTER 
[Beurre en Pommade | 


The butter must always be creamed or beaten before the flavoring is added 
to it. You can blend the butter to a cream in an electric beater, pound it in a 
bowl with a pestle, or mash it, a bit at a time, with the back of a wooden spoon, 
then beat it vigorously until it is light and creamy. Then the flavorings and the 
butter are creamed together, and the mixture is put in a cool place to firm up. 
If it is refrigerated, it will become as hard as an ordinary piece of chilled butter. 


Beurre de Moutarde 


[Mustard Butter | 


For: kidneys, liver, steaks, broiled fish, and sauce enrichments 


1, cup butter Cream the butter well. A half-teaspoon at a time, beat 


1 to 2 Tb prepared mustard, in the mustard. Beat in seasonings and optional parsley 
the strong Dijon type or mixed herbs to taste. 
Salt and pepper to taste 


Optional: 2 Tb fresh Si 
minced parsley or mixed | 
green herbs 


FLAVORED BUTTERS IOI 





Beurre d’Anchois 
[Anchovy Butter] 


For: broiled fish, egg fillings, sandwiches, sauce enrichments 


2 cup butter - Cream the butter well. A half-teaspoon at a time, beat 
2 Tb mashed canned ancho- in the anchovies or anchovy paste. Season to taste with 
vies or x Tb anchovy paste pepper, drops of lemon juice, and optional herbs. 
Pepper 
Lemon juice to taste 
Optional: 1 to 2 Tb minced 
parsley or mixed green 
herbs 


Beurre d’ Ail 
[Garlic Butter ] 


For: broiled or boiled fish, steaks, hamburgers, lamb chops, boiled pota- 
toes, canapés, sauce and soup enrichments 

The smoothest and best-tasting result will be obtained if the garlic is 
pounded to a paste with a pestle and the butter is gradually pounded into it. 
A garlic press may be used if you have not the time or patience to pound, but 
the result will not be as good either in flavor or in texture. 


2 to 8 cloves garlic Set the unpeeled cloves of garlic in the boiling water, 

x quart boiling water bring to the boil for 5 seconds. Drain, peel, and rinse 
under cold water. Bring to the boil again for 30 
seconds, drain, and rinse. Pound to a smooth paste in 
a mortar (or put through a garlic press). 


12 cup butter Pound or cream the butter and garlic together. Season 
Salt and pepper to taste with the salt, pepper, and optional herbs. 


Optional: 1 to 2 Tb minced 
parsley or mixed green 


herbs 





Beurre à l’Oeuf 
[Egg Yolk Butter] 


For: sandwiches, canapés, hard-boiled eggs, and general decoration 


102 CHAPTER TWO: SAUCES 


2 cup butter Cream the butter well. 


4 sieved hard-boiled egg Beat the sieved egg yolks into the butter and season to 
yolks taste with salt, pepper, and optional herbs. 

Salt and pepper 

Optional: 1 to 2 Tb minced 
chives ur mixed green 


herbs. 


Beurre Maître d'Hôtel 
[Parsley Butter ] l 


Beurre de Fines Herbes 
[Mixed Herb Butter | 


Beurre d’Estragon 


| Tarragon Butter | 


For: broiled meats and fish, and for sauce and soup enrichments 


12 cup butter Cream the butter. Drop by drop, beat in the lemon 
1 Tb lemon juice juice. Then beat in the herbs, and season to taste with 
2 to 3 Tb fresh minced pars- salt and pepper. 

ley, or mixed green herbs, 

or tarragon (or dried 

tarragon and fresh pars- 


ley) 
* Salt and pepper 


— eee ees 


Beurre Colbert 
[Tarragon Butter with Meat Flavoring] 


For: broiled meats and fish 


Ingredients for the preced- Drop by drop, beat the meat glaze into the tarragon 
ing butter using tarragon butter. 
1 Tb melted meat glaze 
(meat stock reduced to a 


syrup), page 110 


FLAVORED BUTTERS 


103 


———— en 


Beurre pour Escargots 


[Snail Butter | 


For: snails, broiled meats and fish; for basting baked or broiled fish or 
mushrooms; for broiled mussels, clams, or oysters 


2 cup butter 

2 Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 

1 to 3 cloves mashed garlic, 
depending on your taste 
for garlic 

2 Tb minced parsley 

Salt and pepper 


Cream the butter well. Twist the shallots or onions 


into a ball in the corner of a towel to extract their 
juice. Beat them into the butter with the garlic and 
parsley. Season to taste with salt and pepper. 


Beurre Marchand de Vins 
[Shallot Butter with Red Wine] 


For: steaks, hamburgers, liver, and enrichment of brown sauces 


14 cup red wine 

1 Tb minced shallot or 
green onions 

1 Tb meat glaze or % cup 
brown stock or canned 
beef bouillon 

Big pinch of pepper 


Y cup butter 
1 to 2 Tb minced parsley 
Salt and pepper 


Beurre Bercy 





Boil the wine with the shallots or onions, meat flavor- 
ing, and pepper until the liquid has reduced to about 
1}, tablespoons. Let it cool. 


Cream the butter well, then beat it, a tablespoon at a 


time, into the wine flavoring. Beat in the parsley, and 
season to taste. 


[Shallot Butter with White Wine] 


For: steaks, hamburgers, liver, and enrichment of brown sauces 


Ingredients for the preced- 
ing shallot butter, but sub- 
stitute dry white wine or 
vermouth for the red wine 


Follow the preceding recipe, then proceed to the 


optional next step. 


104 CHAPTER TWO: SAUCES 


Optional: 3 to 4 Tb diced Stir in the optional beef marrow along with the final 
beef marrow softened for seasonings. 
3 or 4 minutes in hot 
salted water, page 19 





Beurre de Crustacés 
[Shellfish Butter | 


For: sandwich spreads, canapés, hard-boiled eggs, decoration of cold 
dishes; for enrichment of shellfish sauces and bisques, and canned and frozen 
shellfish soups 

Shellfish butters are made with the cooked debris, such as legs, chests, 
eggs, and green matter of lobster, crab, crayfish, or shrimps. The red shells 
color the butter a creamy rose, and both shell and bits of flesh give a lovely 
flavor to the mixture. You can also make shellfish butter with the meat alone, 
and color the butter with a bit of tomato paste. 

Traditionally, the shells and meat are placed in a large marble mortar, 
and are pounded into a purée with a heavy wooden pestle. Then they are 
pounded with the butter so every bit is thoroughly mixed together. Finally 
the whole mass is forced through a fine-meshed drum sieve to remove all 
minute pieces of shell. This long and arduous process needs no further ex- 
planation. You just pound; the result is exquisite. An excellent butter may be 
made in an electric blender in a fraction of the time: 

For about 73 cup 


-x cup cooked shellfish debris Chop the debris or meat into 44-inch pieces, or put it 
OR ¥% cup cooked, whole, through a meat grinder. 
unpeeled shrimp 
Or 4 cup cooked shellfish 
meat and 114 Tb tomato 
paste 


V4 lb (% cup) hot melted Fill the electric blender jar with hot water to heat it 
butter thoroughly. Empty and dry quickly. Then add the 
shellfish. Immediately pour in the hot melted butter, 

cover, and blend at top speed. The butter will cream 
into a stiff paste in a few seconds. Pour the mixtute — 
into a saucepan, heat until the butter has warmed and 
melted. Blend again. Repeat, if you feel'it necessary. 


FLAVORED BUTTERS 105 


A fine-meshed sieve set over Rub through a very fine sieve, extracting as much but- 


a bowl ter and shellfish meat as possible. As the butter cools 
A pestle or wooden spoon and partially congeals, beat it with a wooden spoon. 
Salt and white pepper . Season to taste with salt and pepper. 

(*) May be frozen. 


Second pressing 


To extract the remaining butter and flavor from the debris left in the 
sieve, steep the debris in an equal amount of almost simmering water for 5 
minutes in a saucepan over very low heat. Strain, and chill. The congealed 
butter on top of the liquid may be used for sauce enrichments. The liquid 
itself may serve as the basis for a fish stock. 


OTHER SAUCES 


Following is a list of regional or special sauces described in recipes else- 
where in this book. 

Sauce Speciale al’ Ail pour Gigot, a special garlic sauce for roast lamb, page 334 

Sauce Moutarde à la Normande, a cream and mustard sauce for pork, page 382 

Sauce Nénette, cream, mustard, and tomato sauce for pork or boiled beef, 
page 387 

Sauce Fondue de Fromage, a creamy, wine-flavored cheese sauce with a whiff 
of garlic, in the Poached Egg section, page 118. This is also good for vege- 
tables, fish, chicken, or pastas which are to be gratinéed under a broiler, or 
as a spread for hot hors d’oeuvres that are to be browned quickly in the 
oven or under the broiler. 

Sauce Chaud-froid, Blanche-neige, a reduction of heavy cream, meat, poultry, 
or fish stock, and tarragon, plus gelatin. For coating cold chicken, fish, or 
cold molded mousses. This is an excellent cold sauce, and in our opinion 
far more delicate than the traditional sauce chaud-froid made from a flour- 
thickened velouté. See the recipes for cold breast of chicken on page 551, 
for crab on page 553, and for fish mousse on page 562. 


106 CHAPTER TWO: SAUCES 





STOCKS AND ASPICS 
Fonds de Cuisine — Gelée 


The wonderful flavor of good French food is the result, more often than 
not, of the stock used for its cooking, its‘flavoring, or its sauce. The French 
term fonds de cuisine means literally the foundation and working capital of 
the kitchen. A stock is the liquid obtained from the simmering together of 
meat, bones—or fish trimmings—with vegetables, seasonings, and water. This 
liquid, strained, and boiled down to concentrate its flavor if necessary, is the 
basis for soups, the moistening element for stews, braised meats, or vegetables, 
and the liquid used in making all the sauces that have a meat or fish flavoring. 
Stocks are extremely easy to make, and can simmer quietly by themselves with 
little or no attention from the cook. They may be frozen and stored for weeks, 
or they may be boiled down until all their water content has evaporated, and 
they become a glace de viande, or flavor concentrate. 


SUBSTITUTES FOR HOMEMADE STOCK 


If you do not have a homemade stock in the larder, you can always use 
canned beef bouillon, canned chicken broth, canned mushroom broth, or 
bottled clam juice. Such economical substitutes for stock are not usually avail- 
able to French cooks, and when simmered with meats, or with wine and aro- 
matic vegetables, these canned alternatives are entirely satisfactory. A recipe 
_ for improving canned beef bouillon is on page 67; for canned chicken broth, 
"on page 57; and for bottled clam juice, on page 115. Bouillon cubes are less 
successful, but they should certainly be used in an emergency. Canned con- 
sommé tends to be sweet and we do not recommend it. 


INGREDIENTS FOR MAKING STOCKS 


The most luxurious stocks are made from fresh soup bones, fresh meat, 
and vegetables. But unless you intend to make a stock for an absolutely re- 
markable consommé, use what you have on hand and add any fresh ingre- 
dients you wish to buy. It is a good idea to make a collection in the freezer of _. 
beef, veal, and poultry bones, and meat scraps. Then when a sufficient amount l 
has accumulated, you can boil up a stock. Both meat and bones give flavor, 


STOCKS 107 


and the bones, in addition, contain a certain amount of gelatin which gives 
body to the stock. Raw veal bones, especially the knuckle, and calf’s feet, if you 
can find them, contain the most gelatin. If you want a stock that will jell 
naturally, include these in the proportions listed on page 112. 


Lamb, Ham, and Pork 


A few pork bones may be added to the stock kettle, but too much pork 
tends to give the stock a sweet flavor. Lamb or ham bones should not be used; 
their flavor is too strong for a general-purpose stock. But lamb or ham stocks 
are made in the same way as simple stock. 


Vegetables 


Carrots, onions, celery, and leeks are the usual soup vegetables. A parsnip 
or two may be included if you wish. Starchy vegetables will cloud the stock. 
Turnips, cauliflower, and the cabbage family in general have too strong a flavor 
for a general-purpose stock. | 


THE PRESSURE COOKER 


One would expect a pressure cooker to be the ideal stock-making instru- 
ment; but our experiments have shown otherwise. After about 45 minutes of 
cooking under 15 pounds of pressure, a meat stock acquires its maximum pres- 
sure-cooked flavor. To reach its optimum flavor, it must then be simmered 
quietly in an open pot an hour or two more. Poultry stock, in our experience, 
acquires an unpleasant flavor if cooked for more than 20 minutes under 15 
pounds of pressure. After this lapse of time the pressure should be released 
and the stock allowed to simmer, uncovered, for an hour or so longer. 


* FONDS DE CUISINE SIMPLE 
[Simple Meat Stock] 


This is the general formula for a simple stock made from a miscellaneous 
collection of bones and meat scraps. It may be employed for meat sauces, the 
braising of meats and vegetables, the flavoring of soups, and for deglazing a 
roasting pan. The stock may be made from bones alone, but will have more 
character if some meat is included; ideal proportions are about half and half. 
The more elaborate stocks follow exactly the same cooking procedure. 

For 2 to 3 quarts 


108 


3 quarts of meat and bones 
chopped into 2- to 3-inch 
pieces (raw or cooked veal 
or beef bones and meat, 
and/or poultry carcasses, 
scraps, and giblets) 

An 8- to ro-quart kettle 

Cold water 


2 tsp salt 
2 medium-sized scraped car- 
rots 
2 medium-sized peeled on- 
ions 
2 medium-sized celery stalks 
The following tied in 
washed cheesecloth: 
14 tsp thyme 
1 bay leaf 
6 parsley sprigs 
2 unpeeled garlic cloves 
2 whole cloves 
Optional: 2 washed leeks 


CHAPTER TWO: SAUCES 


Place the meat and bones in the kettle and add cold 


water to cover them by 2 inches. Set over moderate 
heat. As the liquid comes slowly to the simmer, scum 
will start to rise. Remdve it-with a spoon or ladle for 
5 minutes or so, until it almost ceases to accumulate. 


Add all the ingredients at the left, and more water if 


the liquid does not cover the ingredients by a full 
inch. When liquid is simmering again, skim as nec- 
essary. Partially cover the kettle, leaving a space of 
about 1 inch for steam to escape. Maintain liquid at 
a very quiet simmer—just a bubble or two of motion 
at the surface—for 4 to 5 hours or more. Accumulated 
fat and scum may be skimmed off occasionally. Boil- 
ing water should be added if the liquid evaporates be- 
low the level of the ingredients. 


Never allow the liquid to boil; fat and scum incorporate themselves into the 


stock and will make it cloudy. 


Cooking may be stopped at any time, and continued later. 
Never cover the kettle airtight unless its contents have cooled completely, or the 


stock will sour. 


When your taste convinces you that you have simmered the most out of your 
ingredients, strain the stock out of the kettle into a bowl. 


TO DEGREASE 


Either let the stock settle for 5 minutes, remove the fat from its surface 
with a spoon or ladle, then draw scraps of paper toweling over the top of the 
stock to blot up the last globules of fat; 


Or set the stock, uncovered, in the refrigerator until the fat has hardened 
on the surface and can be scraped off. : 


FINAL FLAVORING 


Taste the degreased stock for strength. If its flavor is weak, boil it dowa 


to evaporate some of its water content and to concentrate its strength. Correct 
seasoning, and it is ready to use. 


STOCKS 109 


STORAGE 


When the stock is cold, cover and refrigerate it, or bottle and freeze it. 
Stock kept in the refrigerator must be brought to the boil every 3 or 4 days to 
keep it from spoiling. 


VARIATIONS 


The following are traditional recipes for classical stocks made with fresh 
ingredients. You can, of course, vary the proportions according to your pocket- 
book and store of leftover bones and meat scraps. These are all simmered in 
exactly the same way as the simple stock in the preceding master recipe. 


Fonds Blanc 
[White Stock - Veal Stock] 


White stock is used when you want to make a particularly fine white 
velouté sauce or soup. Raw veal releases a tremendous amount of gray and 
granular scum that can cloud your stock if it is not completely removed. The 
easiest way to deal with this problem is to blanch the veal as described here. 

For 2 to 3 quarts 


3 lbs. lean, raw veal shank Place the meat and bones in a kettle. Cover with cold 


meat water, bring to the boil and boil slowly for 5 minutes. 
4 lbs. cracked, raw veal Drain, and rinse the bones and meat under cold water 
bones to remove all scum. Rinse the kettle clean. 


Same vegetables, herbs, and Place the bones and meat again in the kettle, cover 
seasonings as for the with cold water, bring to the simmer, and skim as 
master recipe, page 107 necessary. Then add the vegetables, herbs, and season- 

ings. Simmer the stock for 4 to 5 hours or more as 
described in the master recipe. 





Fonds Blanc de Volaille 
[White Poultry Stock ] 


This stock is used for soups and sauces. Employ the same method and 
ingredients as for the preceding white veal stock, but add a whole or parts of a 
stewing hen to the kettle along with the vegetables. The chicken may be re- 
moved when tender, and the stock simmered several hours longer. 


IIO CHAPTER TWO: SAUCES 





Fonds Brun 
[Brown Stock] 


Brown stock is used for brown sauces, consommés, and for the braising 
of vegetables and red meats. To give the stock a good color, the meat, bones, 
and vegetables are browned before they go into the kettle, otherwise the cook- 
ing procedure is the same as for a simple stock, which may also be turned into 


a brown stock if you brown the ingredients. 


For 3 to 4 quarts 
A shallow roasting pan 
3 lbs. beef shank meat 
3 to 4 lbs. cracked beef and 
veal bones 
2 scrubbed, quartered carrots 
2 halved, peeled onions 


An 8- to ro-quart kettle 


2 tsp salt 

2 celery stalks 

Herbs and flavorings listed 
in the master recipe, page 
107, tied in cheesecloth 





Heat oven to 450 degrees. Arrange the meat, bones, 
and vegetables in the roasting pan and place in the 
middle portion of the oven. Turn the ingredients oc- 
casionally so they will brown evenly, in 30 to 40 
minutes. 


Remove from oven and drain fat out of roasting pan. 


Transfer the browned ingredients to a soup kettle. 
Pour a cup or two of water into the pan, set over heat, 
and scrape up all coagulated browning juices. Pour 
them into the kettle. 


Then, following the procedure in the master recipe on 


page 107, cover the ingredients in the kettle with cold 
water, bring to the simmer, skim. Add the ingredients 
at the left and proceed with the recipe. Simmer the 
stock 4 to 5 hours or more. 


Fonds Brun de Volaille 


[Brown Poultry Stock ] 


The recipe for a simple brown poultry stock is on page 236 in the Poultry 
chapter. You will note that poultry bones and scraps should be browned in a 
skillet, as they tend to burn and to acquire an unpleasant flavor if browned in 


the oven. 





Glace de Viande 
[Meat Glaze] 


Meat glaze is any one of the preceding stocks boiled-down until it has a 
duced to a syrup that becomes a hard jelly when it is cold. Three quarts of 


STOCKS III 


stock will reduce to 1% cups or less of glaze, so it is easily stored. Half a tea- 
spoon stirred into a sauce or a soup will often give it just that particular boost 
of flavor which it lacks. Meat glaze dissolved in hot water may always be used 
in place of stock. It is thus a most useful commodity to have on hand and al- 
most invariably has a better flavor than commercial meat extracts and bouillon 
cubes. 


2 to 3 quarts of any home- Strain the stock and degrease it thoroughly. Bring it 
made stock to the boil in an uncovered saucepan and boil it 
slowly until it has reduced to about 1 quart. Strain it 
through a very fine sieve into a smaller saucepan 
and continue to boil it down until it has reduced to 
a syrup which coats the spoon lightly. Watch it during 
the last stages to be sure it does not burn. Strain it 
into a jar. When it is cold and has turned to a jelly, 
cover and refrigerate, or freeze it. 


. Meat glaze will keep for weeks under refrigeration. 
If it develops a few spots of mold, no harm is done. 
Pry it out of its jar, wash it under warm water. Then 
simmer it in a saucepan over low heat with a spoonful 
of water until it has again reduced to a thick syrup. 


CLARIFICATION OF STOCK 
Clarification du Bouillon 


If you wish to serve a rich homemade consommé, jellied soup, or aspic, 
you should clarify your stock so it is beautifully clear and sparkling. This is 
accomplished by beating egg whites into cold stock, then heating it to just be- 
low the simmer for 15 minutes. The egg-white globules dispersed into the 
stock act as a magnet for all its minute cloudy particles. These gradually rise 
to the surface, leaving a crystal-clear liquid below them. 

Clarification is a simple process if you remember that the stock must be 
perfectly degreased, that all equipment must be absolutely free of grease, and 
that you must handle the stock gently so the egg whites are not unduly dis- 
turbed. 

For about 1 quart 


5 cups cold stock Degrease the stock thoroughly; any fat particles will 
Salt and pepper hinder the clarification process. Taste carefully for 


P2 


A very clean 2!4-quart 


saucepan 


A very clean 2-quart mixing 
bowl 

A wire whip 

2 egg whites 

Optional: 4 cup or 2 ounces 
of absolutely lean, scraped, 
or minced beef 
14 cup minced green leek 

tops or green onion tops 

2 Tb minced parsley 
Y Tb tarragon or chervil 


5 layers of well-washed, 
damp cheesecloth 

A very clean colander 

A very clean 3-quart bowl 

A very clean ladle 

73 cup Madeira, port, or 
cognac 


CHAPTER TWO: SAUCES 


seasoning and oversalt slightly if stock is to be served 
cold; salt loses savor in a cold dish. 


Beat 1 cup of stock in the mixing bowl with the egg 


whites and add optional ingredients for richer flavor. 
Bring the rest of the stock to the boil in the saucepan. 
Then, beating the egg-white. mixture, gradually pour 
on the hot stock in’a very thin stream. Pour the mix- 
ture back into the saucepan and set over moderate 
heat. Until the stock reaches the simmer, agitate it 
slowly and continually with a wire whip so that the 
egg whites, which will begin to turn white, are being 
constantly circulated throughout the liquid. Immedi- 
ately the simmer is reached, stop stirring. The egg 
whites now will have mounted to the surface. Gently 
move the saucepan to the side of the heat so that one 
edge of the liquid is barely bubbling. In 5 minutes, 
rotate the saucepan a quarter turn. Turn it again in 5 
minutes, and once more for a final 5 minutes. 


Line the colander with the cheesecloth and place it 
over the bowl. The colander should be of a size so 
that its bottom will remain above the surface of the 
liquid which is to be poured into the bowl. Very 
gently ladle the stock and egg whites into the cheese- 
cloth, disturbing the egg whites as little as possible. 
The clarified stock will drain through the cheese- 
cloth, leaving the egg-white particles behind. Allow 
the egg whites to drain undisturbed for 5 minutes, 
then remove the colander, and stir the wine or co- 
gnac into the clarified stock. 





JELLIED STOCKS-ASPICS 


Gelée 


Homemade Jellied Stock 


Calf’s feet and veal knuckles contain enough natural gelatin to make 
a stock jell by itself; pork rind helps the process. They are added to simmer z 


with any of the stocks on pages 107 to 110 and will provide about 3 quarts of 
jelly. Prepare them as follows: 


JELLIED STOCKS 


Either 2 calf’s feet 


Or x lb. cracked veal knuck- 


les 


And 1⁄4 lb. fresh or salt pork 
rind 


113 


These can usually be ordered from your butcher, and 


come skinned and cleaned. Scrub them under cold 
water. Soak them for 8 hours in several changes of 
cold water. Then cover them with cold water, boil for 
5 minutes, and wash under cold water. They are now 
ready to use, and are added to the stock along with the 
vegetables. 


Cover the knuckles with cold water, boil for 5 


minutes, then wash under cold water. Add the 
knuckles to the stock along with the vegetables. 


Scrub the pork rind in cold water. Cover with cold 
water and simmer for 10 minutes. Rinse under cold 
water. Add the rind to the stock along with the 
vegetables, calf’s feet, or knuckles. 


USING COMMERCIAL GELATIN 


Plain stock, clarified stock, canned bouillon, and canned consommé are 
turned into aspic (or meat jelly) by adding unflavored gelatin in the follow- 


ing proportions: 


(x envelope of powdered American gelatin equals 14 ounce, 8 grams, or 
a scant tablespoon. 1 sheet of French gelatin equals 2 grams; 4 sheets are 
the equivalent of 1 envelope of powdered gelatin.) 

For jellied soup: 1 envelope of gelatin for each 3 cups of liquid 

For aspics or for the decoration of cold dishes: 1 envelope of gelatin for 


each 2 cups of liquid 


For lining a mold: 1 envelope of gelatin for each 114 cups of liquid 


How to Use Powdered Gelatin 

Sprinkle 1 envelope of gelatin into 14 to 1⁄4 cup of cold stock and let it 
soften for 3 to 4 minutes. Then blend it into the rest of the stock and stir over 
moderate heat for several minutes until the gelatin has completely dissolved 
and the liquid is absolutely free of granules. 


How to Use Sheet Gelatin 


If you are living in France, you will usually buy gelatin in sheets. Soak 
the sheets in cold water for about 10 minutes, until they are soft. Drain them, 


114 CHAPTER TWO: SAUCES 


then stir them in the stock over gentle heat until the gelatin has completely 


dissolved. 


Wine Flavoring | i 

The wine used for flavoring a jelly is almost always port, Madeira, or 
cognac. From 1 to 2 tablespoons per cup is usually sufficient. Stir the wine or 
cognac into the hot stock after the gelatin has been dissolved. As most of the 
alcohol will evaporate, this small additional amount of liquid will not disturb 
the proportions of gelatin. 





TESTING JELLIES 


Always test out a jelly before using it; the few minutes you spend can 
save you from disaster. Pour 4 inch of jelly into a chilled saucer and refrig- 
erate it for about 10 minutes until it has set. Then break it up with a fork and 
let it sit at room temperature for 10 minutes. For jellied soups it should hold 
its shape softly. For aspics its broken lumps should stand alone, but not be 
rubbery. A jelly that is to line a mold should be stiffer, so-it can support the 
ingredients it is to enclose. If the jelly is too hard, add unjellied stock and test 
again. If the jelly is too soft, add more gelatin and test again. 


FISH STOCKS 
Fumets de Poisson 


Fumet de Poisson au Vin Blanc 
[ White-wine Fish Stock] 


The following proportions are for the production of a fine, well-flavored 
fish stock to be used as the basis of a fish velouté sauce. A smaller quantity of 
fish would produce a lighter stock suitable for fish-poaching, or fish soups. 

For about 2 cups 


A 6- to 8-quart enameled or Place all the ingredients in the saucepan or kettle. 
stainless steel saucepan or Bring to the simmer, skim, then simmer uncovered ` 
kettle for 30 minutes. Strain through a fine sieve, and correct 

2 pounds (about 2 quarts) seasoning. Fish stock may be refrigerated or frozen. 


FISH STOCKS 


lean, fresh fish, fish heads, 
and/or bones and trim- 
mings (halibut, whiting, 
or flounder are recom- 
mended, or use frozen fish 
of good quality. Fresh or 
cooked shellfish leftovers 
may be included.) 

1 thinly sliced onion 

6 to 8 parsley stems—not the 
leaves, which will darken 
the stock 

1 tsp lemon juice 

14 tsp salt 

1 cup dry white wine or % 
cup dry white vermouth 

Cold water to cover ingredi- 
ents 

Optional: % cup fresh 
mushroom stems 


IS 


If refrigerated, boil it up every 2 days to keep it from 
spoiling. 





Emergency Fish Stock — Clam Juice 


A good substitute for fresh fish stock may be made with bottled clam 
juice; but remember that clam juice is very salty and becomes even saltier if 


it is reduced. 
For about 2 cups 


A 6-cup enameled or stain- 
less steel saucepan 

1/4 cups bottled clam juice 

I cup water 

1 cup dry white wine or 73 
cup dry white vermouth 

1 thinly sliced onion 

6 parsley stems 

Optional: % cup fresh 


mushroom stems 


Place all ingredients in the saucepan and simmer for 
30 minutes, allowing the liquid to reduce to about 2 
cups. Strain, and correct seasoning. If very salty, use 
in diluted form. 


vs 


CHAPTER THREE 


X 


EN 


EGGS 
Oeufs 


Ora AN EGG is taken out of the breakfast category and put to use as a 
hot entrée, a luncheon, or a supper dish, it offers a great variety of presenta- 
tions and you can draw on practically your whole cooking experience for its 
saucing and garnishing. In the following selection of recipes, we have con- 
centrated on norching, shirring, baking, scrambling, and omelette making, 
with a fundamental recipe for each, and a group of variations. 

Wine and eggs have no great sympathy for each other, but as one usually 
likes to serve wine with an entrée, the best choice would be a fairly dry white 
wine with some body—such as Graves, Chablis, or Pouilly-Fuissé—or a rosé. 


* POACHED EGGS 
' [Oeufs Pochés | 


A poached egg is one that has been dropped without its shell into a pan 
of barely simmering liquid and cooked for about 4 minutes until the white 
is set but the yolk remains liquid. A perfect specimen is neat and oval in shape, 
and the white completely masks the yolk. The most important requirement 
for poaching is that the eggs be very fresh; the yolk stands high, the white 
clings to it in a cohesive mass, and only a small amount of watery liquid falls 
away from the main body of the white. A stale egg with a relaxed and watery 
white is unpoachable because the white trails off in wisps in the water leaving … 
the yolk exposed. If the eggs are not quite as fresh as you could wish, simmer 
them in their shells for 8 to ro seconds before poaching. This will often firm 


POACHED EGGS #17 


up the white just enough so it will hold its shape around the yolk when the 
egg is broken into the water. And a fine solution is the oval metal perforated 
egg poacher, carried in most gourmet-type cookware shops. Simmer the eggs 
10 seconds in their shells, as suggested; place the poachers in the simmering 
water, adding vinegar if you think your eggs need help, and break an egg into 
each poacher, time as usual, and you get a beautiful egg. A final solution is 
the 6-minute boiled egg, /’oeuf mollet; when you peel it, you can substitute it 
for poached eggs in any recipe. 


How to poach eggs 


To transfer the egg from the shell to the water you may either break it 
directly into the water as described below, or break it into a saucer, tilt the 
saucer directly over the water, and slip the egg in. 


A saucepan or a skillet 8 to Pour 2 inches of water into the pan or skillet and add 
10 inches in diameter and 1 tablespoon of vinegar per quart of water. Bring to 
2/2 to 3 inches deep -the simmer. 

Vinegar (which helps the 
eggs to hold their shape) 


4 very fresh eggs Break one of the eggs, and, holding it as closely over 

A wooden spoon or spatula the water as possible, let it fall in. Immediately and 

A skimmer or slotted spoon gently push the white over the yolk with a wooden 
spoon for 2 to 3 seconds. Maintain the water at the 
barest simmer and proceed with the other eggs in the 
same manner. 


A bowl of cold water After 4 minutes, remove the first egg with the skim- 
mer and test with your finger. The white should be 
set, the yolk still soft to the touch. Place the egg in the 
cold water; this washes off the vinegar and stops the 
cooking. Remove the rest of the eggs as they are done, 
and poach others in the same water if you are doing 
more. 

(*) The eggs may remain for several hours in cold 
water, or may be drained and refrigerated. 


A bowl of hot water con- To reheat the eggs, trim off any trailing bits of white 

taining 114 tsp salt per with a knife. Place them in hot salted water for about 
half a minute to heat them through. Remove one at a 
time with a slotted spoon. Holding a folded towel 
under the spoon, roll the egg back and forth for a 
second to drain it, and it is ready to serve. 


quart 
A clean towel 


118 CHAPTER THREE: EGGS 





A SUBSTITUTE FOR POACHED EGGS 


Oeufs Mollets 
[Six-minute Boiled Eggs | 
This is a boiled egg with a set white and a soft yolk which can be peeled 


and substituted for poached eggs. ` 
a quarts boiling water Lower the eggs into the boiling water and boil slowly 
6 eggs with uncracked shells according to the following table, adding 1 minute if 
the eggs are chilled. 
U.S. Large Eggs 6 minutes 
Extra Large 64 minutes 
Jumbo 7 minutes 


As soon as the time is up, drain off the boiling water 
and run cold water into the pan for a minute to set 
the white, and to cool the eggs enough to remove the 
shells. Tap gently on a hard surface to break the 
shells, peel carefully under a stream of water. 


If to be served cold, refrigerate. If to be served hot, 
warm for a minute in a bowl of hot water. 


OEUFS SUR CANAPÉS 
OEUFS EN CROUSTADES 


[Poached Eggs on Canapés, Artichoke 
Bottoms, Mushroom Caps, or in 
Pastry Shells] 


A practically limitless series of elegant little hot first courses or luncheon 
dishes may be concocted with poached eggs, sauces, minces, and imagination. 
Here are some ideas: 


Oeufs à la Fondue de Fromage 


[Poached Eggs on Canapés with 
Cheese Fondue Sauce] 


è 


This is a particularly good sauce for eggs; it is creamy, wine-flavored, 
cheesy, and has just a whiff of garlic. Sauce mornay E with cheese), * 
page 61 may always be substituted. 

For 6 servings (113 cups) 


POACHED EGGS 


À 4-cup saucepan 
1 Tb minced shallot or 
green onions 


1 Tb butter 
A small clove mashed garlic 


1¥% cups dry white wine or : 


34 cup dry white ver- 
mouth 

4 cup stock or canned beef 
bouillon 


112 Tb cornstarch 
1⁄4 cups whipping cream 
A small mixing bowl 


124 to % cup grated Swiss 
cheese 

Salt and pepper 

Pinch of nutmeg 


6 poached eggs or 6-minute 
boiled eggs 

6 canapés (oval slices of 
white bread sautéed in 
clarified butter), page 199 


3 Tb grated Swiss cheese 

r Tb melted butter 

A broiling pan or fireproof 
serving platter 


IIQ 


Cook the shallots or onions for 1 to 2 minutes in the 
butter without browning. Add garlic and cook 30 
seconds more. d 


Then add the wine and stock and boil rapidly until 


liquid has reduced to 3 or 4 tablespoons. 


Blend the cornstarch with 2 tablespoons of the cream, 


then stir in half of the remaining cream. Pour it into 
the wine and shallots and simmer, stirring, for 2 
minutes. Add more cream by spoonfuls to thin the 
sauce—it should coat a spoon fairly heavily. 


Stir in the cheese and simmer, stirring, until the 


cheese has melted and the sauce is smooth and creamy. 
Add more spoonfuls of cream if necessary. Correct 
seasoning, set aside, and reheat when needed. 


Prepare the eggs and canapés. 


Shortly before serving, preheat broiler to very hot. 


Place a cold drained egg on each canapé, spoon the 
sauce over, sprinkle with cheese and butter. Run for 
about a minute under the hot broiler to reheat the 
eggs but not to overcook them, and to brown the top 
of the sauce lightly. Serve on a platter or on serving 
plates. 





Other Ideas 


Mix a spoonful or two of cooked, chopped spinach, or minced sautéed 
ham with a bit of the sauce and spread over each canapé to act as a bed for 


120 


CHAPTER THREE: EGGS 


the egg. Use pastry shells, broiled mushroom caps, or cooked artichoke bot- 


toms instead of canapés. 





` > 


Oeufs en Croustades à la Béarnaise 


[Poached Eggs and Mushrooms, 


Béarnaise Sauce] 


For 8 servings 


1 lb. finely minced fresh 
mushrooms 

3 Tb butter 

3 Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 

An enameled skillet 


1⁄2 Tb flour 


14 cup Madeira or port 
2 cup whipping cream 
12 tsp salt 

Pinch of pepper 


8 cooked pastry shells = to 
2! inches in diameter and 
172 inches high, page 200 

' 8 poached eggs or 6-minute 
boiled eggs 

2 to 24% cups sauce béar- 
naise, or sauce choron 
(béarnaise with tomato), 


pages 84-5 


A handful at a time, twist the mushrooms into a ball 
in the corner of a towel to extract their juice. Sauté 
the mushrooms in hot butter with the shallots or 
onions for 7 to 8 minutes, until the pieces begin to 
separate from each other. 


Sprinkle on the flour and stir over moderate heat for 
3 minutes. 


Stir in the wine and boil for a minute. Then stir in 


two thirds of the cream. Add the seasonings. Simmer 
for 2 to 3 minutes, adding more cream by spoonfuls 
if the mushroom mixture becomes too thick. Correct 
seasoning and set aside. 


Just before serving, reheat the mushrooms, pastry 
shells, and eggs. Put 2 or 3 tablespoons of the mush- 
room mixture into each shell, lay an egg over it, and 
coat with the sauce. Serve immediately on a platter or 
individual serving plates. 





Other Ideas 


Instead of mushrooms, use creamed shellfish; follow the recipe for fondue 
de crustacés on page 202, and top with hollandaise. Broiled mushroom caps, — 
broiled tomatoes, or cooked artichoke bottoms may replace pastry shells. 


POACHED EGGS 


I2I 


a o a a o a 


Oeufs à la Bourguignonne 
[Eggs Poached in Red Wine] 


This is a good dish for a light supper or a winter luncheon, and can be 


made more important if it is garnished with sautéed chicken livers or braised 


onions, and sautéed or broiled mushrooms. Accompany it with a light red 


Burgundy or Beaujolais. Traditionally the eggs are poached in the wine, but 
they may be done in water in the usual way, if you wish. 


For 8 servings 


2 cups of brown stock or 
canned beef bouillon 

2 cups good, young red wine 

An 8-inch saucepan 

8 very fresh eggs 


12 bay leaf tied with 2 or 
3 parsley sprigs 

14 tsp thyme 

x clove mashed garlic 

1 Tb minced shallot or 
green onion 

Pinch of cayenne pepper 

Pinch of pepper 


112 Tb softened butter 

2 Tb flour 

Optional: 1 Tb red currant 
jelly 


1 to 2 Tb softened butter 


8 canapés (ovals of white 
bread sautéed in clarified 
butter, page 199. They 
may be rubbed with a cut 





Bring the stock and wine to the simmer and poach the 
eggs in it. Remove the eggs to a fireproof dish, add 
46 inch of poaching liquid, and set aside. About 5 
minutes before serving, set the dish uncovered over 
simmering water to reheat the eggs. 


After poaching the eggs, add the herbs, garlic, shallot 


or onion, and seasonings to the wine and boil it down 
rapidly until it has reduced to 2 cups. Remove parsley 
and bay leaf. 


Blend the butter and flour to a smooth paste—beurre 
manié. Off heat, beat it into the wine mixture with a 
wire whip. Boil for 30 seconds. Beat in the optional 
currant jelly for color and flavor, and correct season- 
ing. 

(*) If not to be used immediately, set aside uncovered, 
top dotted with part of the enrichment butter. 


Just before serving, reheat the sauce to the simmer. 
Off heat, beat in the butter. 


Place a hot egg on each canapé and arrange on a plat- 
ter or serving plates. Surround with whatever garni- 
ture you may have chosen, and spoon the hot sauce 
over. Decorate with parsley, and serve. 


122 CHAPTER THREE: EGGS 


clove of garlic if you 
wish.) 

a to 3 Tb fresh minced pars- 
ley 


Oeufs en Gelée a 
[Poached Eggs in Aspic] 


This recipe is in the chapter on cold buffets, page 547. 


* SHIRRED EGGS 
[Oeufs sur le Plat - Oeufs Miroir] 


A shirred egg is one that is broken into a small, flat, buttered dish and 
cooked quickly under the broiler. The white is softly set and tender, and the 
yolk is liquid, but covered by a shimmering, translucent film. Shirred eggs 
should never be attempted in the oven, as it toughens them. 

For each serving 


Preheat broiler to very hot. 


A shallow, fireproof dish Place the dish over moderate heat and add the butter. 
about 4 inches in diameter As soon as it has melted, break the egg or eggs into 
12 Tb butter the dish and cook for about 30 seconds until a thin 
I or 2 eggs layer of white has set in the bottom of the dish. Re- 
move from heat, tilt dish, and baste the egg with the 

butter. Set aside. 


Salt and pepper A minute or so before serving, place the dish an inch 
under the hot broiler. Slide it in and out every few 
seconds and baste the egg with the butter. In about a 
minute the white will be set, and the yolk filmed and 
glistening. Remove, season, and serve immediately. 


è 





VARIATIONS 


Using the technique of the preceding recipe, shirred eggs may be A ced 
up in the following ways: 


SHIRRED EGGS 123 
Au Beurre Noir 
[With Black Butter Sauce] 


Substitute beurre noir, page 98, for plain butter. 


Aux Fines Herbes 
[With Herb Butter] 


Substitute herb or tarragon butter, page 102, for plain butter. 


A la Créme 

[With Cream] 

Use half the amount of butter. After bottom of egg has been lightly 
cooked on top of the stove, pour 2 tablespoons of whipping cream over the 
egg, then set it under the broiler. Basting is not necessary. 

Gratinés 

[Browned with Cheese | 

This is the same as à la crème, but sprinkle a teaspoon of grated cheese 
over the cream, and dot with butter. 

Pipérade 

[With Tomatoes, Onions, and Peppers] 


Prepare the pipérade mixture of cooked onions, green peppers, and toma- 
toes described on page 137. Then proceed as for the main recipe, spooning the 
pipérade around the egg before it goes under the broiler. 


Other Suggestions 


Just before serving, surround the egg with sautéed mushrooms, kidneys, 
chicken livers, sausages, asparagus tips, broiled tomatoes, tomato sauce, or what- 
ever else strikes your fancy. 


* EGGS BAKED IN RAMEKINS 
[Oeufs en Cocotte | 


These are individual servings of 1 or 2 eggs baked in porcelain, pyrex, 
or earthenware ramekins. The ramekins must be set in a pan of boiling water, 


124 


CHAPTER THREE: EGGS 


otherwise the intense heat of the oven toughens the outside layer of egg before 


the inside has cooked. 
For each serving 


12 tsp butter 

1 ramekin 214 to 3 inches in 
diameter and about 11⁄2 
inches high 

a Tb whipping cream 

A pan containing 4 inch of 
simmering water 

I or 2 eggs 


Salt and pepper 


VARIATIONS 


Aux Fines Herbes 


[With Herbs] 


Preheat oven to 375 degrees. 


Butter the ramekin, saving a dot for later. Add 1 
tablespoon of cream and set the ramekin in the sim- 
mering water over moderate heat. When the cream is 
hot, break into it one or two eggs. Pour the remaining 
spoonful of cream over the egg and top with a dot of 
butter. 


Place in middle level of the hot oven and bake for 7 


to 10 minutes. The eggs are done when they are just 
set but still tremble slightly in the ramekins. They will 
set a little more when the ramekins are removed, so 
they should not be overcooked. 


Season with salt and pepper, and serve. 


(*) The ramekins may remain in the pan of hot 
water, out of the oven, for 10 to 15 minutes before 
serving. To prevent overcooking, remove eggs from 
oven when slightly underdone. 


Add half a teaspoon of mixed fresh parsley, chives, and chervil, or tar- 
ragon to the cream in the preceding recipe. 


Sauces 


Instead of cream, use one of the brown sauces on pages 71 to 75, especially 


those with herbs, mushrooms, or tomatoes. Or substitute one of the white 
sauces, pages 61 to 64 of which sauce soubise with onions, or sauce au cayi s, 


(curry sauce) are especially good. The tomato sauces on pages 76 to 78 are 
other alternatives. 


SCRAMBLED EGGS 


Other Suggestions 


125 


A spoonful or two of any of the following cooked ingredients may be 
put in the bottom of the ramekins along with either cream or sauce: 

Minced mushrooms, asparagus, spinach, artichoke hearts 

Diced lobster, shrimp, crab 

Diced truffles, and/or a slice of foie gras 





x SCRAMBLED EGGS 


[Oeufs Brouillés | 


Scrambled eggs in French are creamy soft curds that just hold their shape 
from fork to mouth. Their preparation is entirely a matter of stirring the eggs 
over gentle heat until they slowly thicken as a mass into a custard. Salt plus 
half a teaspoon of liquid per egg helps blend yolks and white, but no more 
liquid or liquid-producing ingredients or the eggs will turn watery. 


For 4 or 5 servings 


A fork or a wire whip 

8 eggs, or 7 eggs and 2 yolks 
A mixing bowl 

Salt and pepper 

4 tsp water or milk 


2 Tb softened butter 

A heavy-weight saucepan or 
skillet 7 to 8 inches bot- 
tom diameter (no-stick 
suggested). Depth of eggs 
in pan should be % to 1 
inch 

A rubber spatula or wooden 
spoon 


112 to 2 Tb softened butter 
or whipping cream 

A warm buttered platter 

Parsley sprigs 


Beat the eggs in the bowl with the seasonings and 


liquid for 20 to 30 seconds, just to blend yolks and 
whites. 


Smear the bottom and sides of the pan with the butter. 


Pour in the eggs and set over moderately low heat. 
Stir slowly and continually, reaching all over the bot- 
tom of the pan. Nothing will seem to happen for 2 to 
3 minutes as the eggs gradually heat. Suddenly they 
will begin to thicken into a custard. Stir rapidly, 
moving pan on and off heat, until the eggs have al- 
most thickened to the consistency you wish. Then re- 
move from heat, as they will continue to thicken 


slightly. 


Just as soon as they are of the right consistency, stir 


in the enrichment butter or cream, which will stop 
the cooking. Season to taste, turn out onto the platter, 
decorate with parsley, and serve. 

(*) The eggs may be kept for a while in their sauce- 
pan over tepid water, but the sooner they are served 
the better. 


126 CHAPTER THREE: EGGS 


Te —_——_————————— 


VARIATIONS 
Aux Fines Herbes 
[With Herbs] , 


Beat a tablespoon of minced fresh herbs such as parsley, chervil, chives, 
and tarragon into the eggs at the start. Sprinkle more herbs over the eggs just 
before serving. 


Au Fromage 
[With Cheese | 


Stir 4 to 6 spoonfuls of grated Swiss cheese into the eggs along with the 
enrichment butter at the end. 


Aux Truffes 
[With Truffles | 


Stir 1 or 2 diced truffles into the eggs before scrambling them. Sprinkle 
a bit of chopped truffle over the eggs before serving. 


Garnishings 


Aside from ham, bacon, or sausages, the platter may be garnished with 
such things as: broiled or sautéed mushrooms, kidneys, or chicken livers; sau- 
téed eggplant or zucchini; broiled tomatoes, tomato sauce, or the pipérade 
mixture on page 137; diced sautéed potatoes; buttered peas, asparagus tips, or 
artichoke hearts. 


OMELETTES 


A good French omelette is a smooth, gently swelling, golden oval that is 
tender and creamy inside. And as it takes less than half a minute to make, it 
is ideal for a quick meal. There is a trick to omelettes, and certainly the easiest 
way to learn is to ask an expert to give you a lesson. Nevertheless we hope one 
of the two techniques we describe will enable you, if you have never made 
an omelette before, to produce a good one. The difficulty with all written reci- 
pes for omelettes is that before you even start to make one you must read, .. 
remember, and visualize the directions from beginning to end, and practice 
the movements. For everything must go so quickly once the eggs are in the 


OMELETTES 107 


pan that there is no time at all to stop in the middle and pore over your book 
in order to see what comes next. Learning to make a good omelette is entirely 
a matter of practice. Do one after another for groups of people every chance 
you get for several days, and even be willing to throw some away. You should 
soon develop the art, as well as your own personal omelette style. 

The two methods set forth here are rapid, professional techniques. The 
first is the simplest. The second takes more manual skill. 


OMELETTE PANS 


An omelette cannot be made in a sticky pan; the eggs must be able to 
slide around freely, and if they cannot, you simply cannot make an omelette 
at all. Since the first edition of this book, professionally shaped omelette pans 
of heavy aluminum with no-stick.interiors are everywhere available, and that’s 
what we use—gratefully. However, the great omelette maker Dione Lucas 
insisted on her specially made cast-aluminum pan half an inch thick, while 
that other famous omelette queen Mme Romaine de Lyon and many another 
French cook swear only by the plain iron pan % inch thick like the one in 
our illustrations. Whatever you buy, you should have the long handle and the 
straight-sloping sides 2 inches deep; the bottom diameter should be about 7 
inches, since this is the perfect size for the perfect 2- to 3-egg omelette. 

If you prefer the French iron pan illustrated, you must first scrub it with 
steel wool and scouring powder, rinse and dry it, then heat it for a minute or 
two just until its bottom is too hot for your hand. Rub it with paper towels 
and cooking oil and let it stand overnight. Before making your first omelette, 
sprinkle a teaspoon of table salt in the pan, heat it again, and rub vigorously 
for a moment with paper towels; rub the pan clean, and it is ready for an 
omelette. If the pan is used only for omelettes (a wise decision), it needs no 
washing afterwards; merely rub it clean with paper towels. If the pan zs 
washed, dry, warm, and oil it lightly before putting it away. If it becomes 
sticky again, rub again with salt. Never allow any pan, particularly an iron 
one, to sit empty over heat—this does something to its internal structure so 
that foods stick to it forevermore. 

EGGS AND HOW TO BEAT THEM 

An omelette can contain up to 8 eggs, but the individual 2- to 3-egg ome- 

lette is usually the tenderest, and by far the best size to practice making. At 


under 30 seconds an omelette, a number of people can be served in a very short 
time. In fact, unless you are extremely expert and have a restaurant-size heat 


128 CHAPTER THREE: EGGS 


source, we do not recommend larger omelettes at all. But if you do want to 
attempt them, be sure to have the correct size of pan. The depth of the egg 
mass in the pan should not be over 4 inch, as the eggs must cook quickly. A 
pan with a 7-inch bottom is right for the 2-.to 3-egg omelette; a 10- to 11-inch 
pan is required for 8 eggs. 

Just before heating the butter in the pan, break the eggs into a mixing 
bowl and add salt and pepper. With a large table fork, beat the eggs only 
enough to blend the whites and yolks thoroughly. From 30 to 40 vigorous 
strokes should be sufficient. 

If you are making several 2- to 3-egg omelettes, beat the necessary num- 
ber of eggs and seasonings together in a large mixing bowl, and provide your- 
self with a ladle or measure. Two U.S. large eggs measure about 6 tablespoons; 
3 eggs, about 9 tablespoons. Measure out the required quantity for each ome- 
lette as you are ready to make it, giving the eggs 4 or 5 vigorous beats before 
dipping them out with your measure. 


TRANSFERRING THE OMELETTE FROM PAN TO PLATE 
In each of the methods described, the finished omelette ends up in the far 
lip of the pan. This is the way to transfer it from the pan to the plate. 





Hold the plate in your left hand. Turn the omelette pan so its handle is to 
your right. Grasp the handle with your right hand, thumb on top. Rest the lip of 
the pan slightly off the center of the plate so the omelette will land in the middle Bf 
the plate. Then tilt plate and pan against each other at a 45-degree angle. 





OMELETTES 129 





Quickly turn the pan upside down over the plate and the omelette will drop into 
position. 


If it has not formed neatly, push it into shape with the back of a fork. Rub the 
top of the omelette with softened butter and serve as soon as possible, for 
omelettes toughen if they are kept warm. 


I “ L'OMELETTE BROUILLÉE 
[Scrambled Omelette] 


This is best in a French omelette pan, but a skillet can be used. 
For 1 omelette, 1 to 2 servings. Time: Less than 30 seconds of 


cooking 
2 or 3 eggs Beat the eggs and seasonings in the mixing bowl for 
Big pinch of salt 20 to 30 seconds until the whites and yolks are just 
Pinch of pepper blended. 


A mixing bowl 
A table fork 


130 CHAPTER THREE: EGGS 





1 Tb butter 

An omelette pan 7 inches in 
diameter at the bottom 

A table fork 





Place the butter in the pan and set over very high heat. If you have an electric heat 
element, it should be red hot. As the butter melts, tilt the pan in all directions to 
film the sides. When you see that the foam has almost subsided in the pan and the 
butter is on the point of coloring, it is an indication that it is hot enough to pour 
in the eggs. 





Hold the panhandle with your left hand, thumb on top, and immediately start slide ` 
ing the pan back and forth rapidly over the heat. At the same time, fork in right 
hand, its flat side against the bottom of the pan, stir the eggs quickly to spread them 


OMELETTES 131 


continuously all over the bottom of the pan as they thicken. In 3 or 4 seconds they 
will become a light, broken custard. (A filling would go in at this point.) 


4 





Then lift the handle of the pan to tilt it at a 45-degree angle over the heat, and rap- 
idly gather the eggs at the far lip of the pan with the back of your fork. Still hold- 
ing the pan tilted over the heat, run your fork around the lip of the pan under the 
far edge of the omelette to be sure it has not adhered to the pan. 


132 CHAPTER THREE: EGGS 





Give 4 or 5 short, sharp blows on the handle of the pan with your right fist to loosen 
the omelette and make the far edge curl over onto itself. 

Hold the pan tilted over heat for 1 or 2 seconds to brown the bottom of the omelette 
very lightly, but not too long or the eggs will overcook. The center of the omelette 
should remain soft and creamy. 


A warm plate Turn the omelette onto the plate as illustrated on page 
Softened butter 128, rub the top with a bit of butter, and serve as soon 
as possible. 





II + L'OMELETTE ROULEE 
[Rolled Omelette | 


This omelette should be made in a French omelette pan and a high gas 
flame is usually more successful than an electric heat element. The rolled 
omelette is the most fun of any method, but requires more practice. Here the 
pan is jerked over high heat at an angle so that the egg mass is continually + 
hurled against the far lip of the pan until the eggs thicken: Finally, as the pan is 
tilted further while it is being jerked, the eggs roll over at the far lip of the pan, 


OMELETTES 


133 


forming an omelette shape. A simple-minded but perfect way to master the 
movement is to practice outdoors with half a cupful of dried beans. As soon as 
you are able to make them flip over themselves in à group, you have the right 


feeling; but the actyal omelette-making gesture is sharper and rougher. 
For 1 omelette, 1 to 2 servings. Time: Less than 30 seconds of 


cooking 


2 or 3 eggs 
Big pinch of salt 
Pinch of pepper 
A mixing bowl 
A table fork 


1 Tb butter 

An omelette pan 7 inches in 
diameter at the bottom 

A table fork 


Beat the eggs and seasonings in the mixing bowl for 
20 to 30 seconds until the whites and yolks are just 


blended. 


Place the butter in the pan and set over very high 
heat. As the butter melts, tilt the pan in all directions 
_ to film the sides. When you see that the foam has al- 
most subsided in the pan and the butter is on the 
point of coloring (indicating it is hot enough), pour 
in the eggs. It is of utmost importance in this method 
that the butter be of the correct temperature. 





Let the eggs settle in the pan for 2 or 3 seconds to form a film of coagulated egg in 


the bottom of the pan. 


134 CHAPTER THREE: EGGS 





Grasp the handle of the pan with both hands, thumbs on top, and immediately begin 
jerking the pan vigorously and roughly toward you at an even, 20-degree angle over 
the heat, one jerk per second. 

It is the sharp pull of the pan toward you which throws the eggs against the far lip 
of the pan, then back over its bottom surface. You must have the courage to be rough 
or the eggs will not loosen themselves from the bottom of the pan. After several 
jerks, the eggs will begin to thicken. (A filling would go in at this point.) 





Then increase the angle of the pan slightly, which will force the egg mass to roll over 
on itself with each jerk at the far lip of the pan. 


OMELETTES 135 





As soon as the omelette has shaped up, hold it in the angle of the pan to brown the 
bottom a pale golden color, but only a second or two, for the eggs must not overcook. 
The center of the omelette should remain soft and creamy. If the omelette has not 
formed neatly, push it with the back of your fork. 


Turn the omelette onto the plate as illustrated on page 128, rub the top with a bit of 
butter, and serve as soon as possible. 


GARNISHINGS AND FILLINGS FOR OMELETTES 
Aux Fines Herbes 
[With Herbs | 


Beat into the eggs at the beginning 1 tablespoon of minced fresh herbs 
such as chervil, parsley, chives, and tarragon. Sprinkle more of the same over 
the finished omelette. 


Au Fromage 
[With Cheese] 


After the eggs have set for 2 or 3 seconds in the pan at the point indicated 
in either of the two omelette recipes, sprinkle in 1 or 2 tablespoons of grated 


k 


136 


CHAPTER THREE: EGGS 


Swiss or Parmesan cheese and finish the omelette. If you wish, sprinkle more 


cheese over the completed omelette, dot with butter, and run quickly under a 


very hot broiler to melt and brown the cheese. 


Aux Épinards 
[With Spinach] 


Beat 2 or 3 tablespoons of cooked purée of spinach, page 46ọ, into the eggs 
at the beginning, then proceed with the omelette as usual. 


Other Suggestions 


Sprinkle % cup of any of the following cooked ingredients over the eggs 
after they have set for 2 or 3 seconds in the pan at the point indicated in either 
of the two omelette recipes, then proceed with the omelette as usual: 

Diced sautéed potatoes and minced herbs 


Diced truffles 


Diced sautéed ham, chicken livers, or mushrooms 
Diced cooked asparagus tips or artichoke hearts 
Diced cooked shrimp, crab, or lobster 

Cubes of stale white bread sautéed in butter 


Omelettes Gratinées à la Tomate 


[Tomato-filled Omelettes Gratinéed With Cream and Cheese] 


Here is a delicious supper or luncheon dish that can be prepared ahead 
and gratinéed just before serving. 


For 4 to 6 people 


4 two-egg omelettes or 2 
three-egg omelettes 

A buttered plate 

A shallow, buttered, fire- 
proof serving platter 


1 cup fresh tomato purée, 


page 78 


Cook the omelettes according to one of the master 
recipes, but leave them slightly underdone. Slip each 
as it is made onto a buttered plate, then slide it onto 
the buttered platter, arranging the omelettes side by 
side. 


Cut a slit along the length of each omelette to within, * 


Y, inch of the 2 ends. Fill the slits with the tomato 
purée, 


OMELETTES 


72 to 73 cup whipping cream É 


or crème fraîche, page 
16 
13 cup grated Swiss cheese 
¥, Tb melted butter 


Pipérade 


137 


(*) If not to be used immediately, rub tops of ome- 
lettes with softened butter and cover with waxed 


paper. ", 
Preheat broiler to very hot. 


Just before serving, pour the cream over the omelettes, 
and sprinkle with cheese and melted butter. Set platter 
3 inches from hot broiler for 1 or 2 minutes to reheat 
the omelettes and to brown the cheese lightly, but do 
not let the omelettes overcook. Serve immediately. 


[Open-faced Omelette Garnished with Onions, Peppers, Tomatoes, and 


Ham] 


This is a Basque specialty, and quick to make if the pipérade mixture 
has been prepared in advance. As the omelette is not folded, and is served in 
its cooking vessel, it is not a disaster if it sticks a little on the bottom. You may 
therefore cook the eggs in a low, glazed pottery dish, or a fancy skillet. 


For 4 to 6 servings 


B to 12 strips of ham 1⁄4 inch 
thick and about 2 by 3 
inches across 

2 Tb olive oil or butter 

An 8- to g-inch enameled 
skillet 


14 cup thinly sliced yellow 
onions 

14 cup thinly sliced green or 
red bell peppers 

Salt and pepper to taste 


14 clove mashed garlic 
Speck of cayenne pepper 
2 or 3 firm, ripe, red toma- 


Brown the ham slices lightly on both sides in hot oil 
or butter. Set them aside, and reheat just before using 
them at the end of the recipe. 


In the same oil or butter in which you browned the 
ham, cook the onions and peppers slowly, covering 
the skillet, until they are tender but not browned. 
Season to taste with salt and pepper. 


Stir in the garlic and pepper. Lay the tomatoes over 
the onions and sprinkle with salt. Cover and cook 
slowly for 5 minutes. Uncover, raise heat, and boil for 


138 


toes peeled, seeded, juiced, 
and sliced, page 505 
Salt and pepper 


14 Tb olive oil or butter 

An Ir- to 12-inch serving 
skillet or shallow, fire- 
proof serving dish 

8 to 10 eggs beaten lightly 
with 14 tsp salt and a 
pinch of pepper 

A large table fork 

2 to 3 Tb minced parsley or 
mixed fresh green herbs 


CHAPTER THREE: EGGS 


a few minutes, shaking the pan occasionally until the 
juice from the tomatoes has almost entirely evap- 
orated. Season to taste, and reheat just before using. 
(*) Recipe may be prepared ahead to this point. 


Heat the oil or butter in the skillet or dish. When 


very hot, pour in the eggs. Stir rapidly with a fork 
until the eggs havt just set into a creamy mass. Re- 
move from heat and spread over them the hot 
pipérade, mixing a bit of it delicately into the eggs. 
Lay the warm ham strips over the pipérade. Sprinkle 
with the herbs and serve immediately. 


. CHAPTER FOUR 


ENTREES AND 
LUNCHEON DISHES 


PIE DOUGH-PASTRY CRUSTS 
Pate Brisée 


PATE BRISEE 
{Short Paste, Pastry Dough, Pie Crust ] 


A good French pastry crust is tender, crunchy, and buttery. The best one, 
pate brisée fine, is made in the proportions, according to weight, of 5 parts flour 
to 4 parts butter. American all-purpose, hard-wheat flour produces a slightly 
brittle crust if only butter is used. However, a mixture of 3 parts butter and 1 
part vegetable shortening will give a tender crust with a good buttery flavor. 
Unlike standard American methods, the French system calls for a fraisage at 
the end of the operation, which is a short pushing out of the dough with the 
heel of the hand to insure an even blending of fat and flour. 


Proportions per cup of flour 


(Directions for measuring flour and tables of equivalents are on pages 17- 
18.) 

1 cup all-purpose flour (5 ounces) 

3 ounces (% stick) butter and 1 ounce (2 Tb) vegetable shortening 

3 to 414 Tb iced water 


Y, tsp salt 
14 tsp sugar (optional, for color) 


140 CHAPTER FOUR: ENTREES AND LUNCHEON DISHES 


Directions for making short paste by hand and in the food processor 


Hand mixing. You must train yourself to work rapidly, particularly if 
your kitchen is warm, so that the butter will soften as little as possible. Use very 
quick, light finger movements, and do not linger on the dough at all with the 
warm palms of your hands. A pastry blender may be used if you wish, but a 
necessary part of learning how to cook is to get the feel of the dough in your 
fingers. I] faut mettre la main à la pate! 





a cups all-purpose flour Place flour, salt, sugar, butter, and vegetable shorten- 
(scooped and leveled, see ing in a big mixing bowl. Rub the flour and fat to- 
page 17) gether rapidly between the tips of your fingers until 

I tsp salt the fat is broken into pieces the size of oatmeal flakes. 

1⁄4 tsp sugar Do not overdo this step as the fat will be blended 


6 ounces (11% sticks) chilled more thoroughly later. 
butter cut into 14-inch bits 
4 Tb chilled shortening 


A scant half cup of iced Add the water and blend quickly with one hand, 
water, plus droplets more fingers held together and slightly cupped, as you 
as needed rapidly gather the dough into a mass. Sprinkle up 

to 1 tablespoon more water by droplets over any un- 
massed remains and add them to the main body of 
the dough. Then press the dough firmly into a roughly 
shaped ball. It should just hold together and be pli- 
able, but not sticky. Proceed to the fraisage, page 141. 


l Short paste in the food processor. The preceding proportions are right for 
machines with a 2-quart capacity; a large container would take double the 
amount. Measure the dry ingredients into the bowl (equipped with the steel 
blade). Quarter the chilled sticks of butter lengthwise and cut crosswise into 
¥%-inch pieces; add to the flour along with the chilled shortening. Flick the 
machine on and off 4 or 5 times, then measure out a scant half cup of iced 
water. Turn the machine on and pour it all in at once; immediately flick the 
machine on and off several times, and the dough should begin to mass on the 
blade. If not, dribble in a little more water and repeat, repeating again if nec- 
essary. Dough is done when it has begun to mass; do not overmix it. Scrape 
the dough out onto your work surface, and proceed to the fraisage. aa 


PASTRY DOUGH I4I 





The fraisage—or final blending (for hand-made 
and machine dough) 


Place the dough on a lightly floured pastry board. With the heel of one hand, not 
the palm which is too warm, rapidly press the pastry by two-spoonful bits down on 
the board and away from you in a firm, quick smear of about 6 inches. This consti- 
tutes the final blending of fat and flour, or fraisage. 





With a scraper or spatula, gather the dough again into a mass; knead it briefly into a 
fairly smooth round ball. Sprinkle it lightly with four and wrap it in waxed paper. 
Either place the dough in the freezing compartment of the refrigerator for about 1 
hour until it is firm but not congealed, or refrigerate for 2 hours or overnight. 


Uncooked pastry dough will keep for 2 to 3 days under refrigeration, or may be 
frozen for several weeks. Always wrap it airtight in waxed paper and a plastic bag. 


Rolling out the dough 


Because of its high butter content, roll out the dough as quickly as possi- 
ble, so that it will not soften and become difficult to handle. 

Place the dough on a lightly floured board or marble. If the dough is hard, 
beat it with the rolling pin to soften it. Then knead it briefly into a fairly flat 
circle. It should be just malleable enough to roll out without cracking. 


142 CHAPTER FOUR: ENTRÉES AND LUNCHEON DISHES 








Lightly flour the top of the dough. Place rolling pin across center and 
roll the pin back and forth with firm but gentle pressure to start the dough 
moving. Then, with a firm, even stroke, and always rolling away from you, 
start just below the center of the dough and roll to within an inch of the far 
edge. 





Lift dough and turn it at a slight angle. 


———— TT 


Give it another roll. Continue lifting, turning, and rolling, and, as necessary, 
sprinkle board and top of dough lightly with flour to prevent sticking. Roll it 
into a circle % inch thick and about 2 inches larger all around than your pie 
pan or flan ring. If your circle is uneven, cut off a too-large portion, moisten the 


PASTRY DOUGH 143 


edge of the too-small portion with water, press the two pieces of pastry to- 
gether, and smooth them with your rolling pin. 

The dough should be used as soon as it has been rolled out, so that it will 
not soften. 


Making a pastry shell 







Flan ring, false- 
bottomed cake pan 


A French tart, quiche; or pie is straight sided and open faced, and stands 
supported only by its pastry shell. In France the shell is molded in a bottomless 
metal flan ring that has been set on a baking sheet. When the tart is done, the 
ring is removed and the tart is slid from the baking sheet to a rack or the serv- 
ing dish. You can achieve the same effect by molding your pastry in a false- 
bottomed, straight-sided, cake pan 1 to 114 inches deep. When the shell is ready 
for unmolding, the pan is set over a jar and the false bottom frees the shell 
from the sides of the pan. It is then, with the aid of a long-bladed spatula, slid 
off its false bottom and onto a rack or the serving dish. You can also make 
pastry shells using two matching pie pans; once in a while the weight of the 
filling will force the outward-slanting sides of the shell to collapse, so we are 
not recommending it. 


Quiches 





144 CHAPTER FOUR: ENTRÉES AND LUNCHEON DISHES 


Partially baked pastry shells are used for quiches and for tarts whose 
filling cooks in the shell. Fully baked shells are for tarts filled with cooked 
ingredients that need only a brief reheating, or for fresh fruit tarts that are 
served cold. i . : 

Butter the inside of the mold. If you are using a flan mold, butter the 
baking sheet also. 





Either reverse the dough onto the rolling pin, and unroll it over the mold; 
or fold the dough in half, in half again, then lay it in the mold and unfold it. 





Press the dough lightly into the bottom of the cake pan, or onto the 
baking sheet if you are using a flan ring. Then lift the edges of the dough and 
work it gently down the inside edges of mold with your fingers, taking in 
about ¥% inch of dough all around the circumference. This will make the sides 
of the pastry shell a little thicker and sturdier. Trim off excess dough by rolling 
the pin over the top of the mold. 2 


Å— a a a 


PASTRY SHELLS 145 





Then with your thumbs, push the dough 1% inch above the edge of the 
mold, to make an even, rounded rim of dough all around the inside circum- 
ference of the mold. 








Press a decorative edge around the rim of the pastry with the dull edge 
of a knife. 


Prick bottom of pastry with a fork at 4-inch intervals. 





To keep the sides of the pastry shell from collapsing and the bottom from 
puffing up, either butter the bottom of another mold, weight it with a handful 
of dry beans, and place it inside the pastry; or line the pastry with buttered, 
lightweight foil, or buttered brown paper. Press it well against the sides of the 
pastry, and fill it with dried beans. The weight of the beans will hold the pastry 
against the mold during the baking. 





Refrigerate if not baked immediately. 


146 CHAPTER FOUR: ENTRÉES AND LUNCHEON DISHES 


For a partially cooked shell: Bake at the middle level of a preheated 400- 
degree oven for 8 to 9 minutes until pastry is set. Remove mold or foil and 
beans. Prick bottom of pastry with a fork to keep it from rising. Return to 
oven for 2 to 3 minutes more. When the shell is starting to color and just be- 
ginning to shrink from sides of mold, remove it from the oven. If it seems to 
you that the sides of the shell are fragile, or are liable to crack or leak with 
the weight of the filling to come, do not ünrold until your tart or quiche is 


filled and finally baked. 


For a fully cooked shell: Bake 7 to ro minutes more, or until the shell 
is very lightly browned. 


Unmolding: When the shell is done, unmold it and slip it onto a rack. 
Circulation of air around it while it cools will prevent it from getting soggy. 


OPEN-FACED TARTS 
Quiches 


Quiche Lorraine, although it seems to be the most well known, is only 
one of a series of generally simple-to-make and appetizing entrées. A quiche 
is a mixture of cream and bacon, such as the quiche Lorraine, or cheese and 
milk, or tomatoes and onions, or crab, or anything else which is combined with 
eggs, poured into a pastry shell, and baked in the oven until it puffs and 
browns. It is practically foolproof, and you can invent your own combinations. 
Serve it with a salad, hot French bread, and a cold white wine; follow it with 
fruit, and you have a perfect lunch or supper menu. Or let it be the first course 
_of your dinner. You can also make tiny quiches for hot hors d’oeuvres. 

The following recipes are all designed for pastry shells 8 inches in diame- 
ter. The quiche ingredients should fill the shell by no more than three fourths, 
to allow room for puffing. An 8-inch shell will hold about 214 cups of filling 
and serves 4 to 6 people. A 10-inch shell, serving 6 to 8, will hold one and a half 
times this amount of filling or slightly more. 

The partially cooked shell may be baked hours ahead of time, and the 
filling prepared and refrigerated in its mixing’ bowl. Half an hour before 
serving, the filling is poured into the shell and the quiche is set in a 375-degree 
oven. In 25 to 30 minutes it will have puffed and the top browned. A knife _ 
plunged into the center should come out clean, and the quiche is ready to serve. | 
It will stay puffed for about 10 minutes in the turned-off hot oven with the door 


QUICHES 


147 


ajar. As it cools, it sinks down. It may be reheated, but will not puff again. A 
cold guiche makes a good snack and is easy to take along on a picnic. 


* QUICHE LORRAINE 


[Cream and Bacon Quiche | 


The classic quiche Lorraine contains heavy cream, eggs, and bacon, no 


cheese. The bacon is usually blanched in simmering water to remove its smoky, 
salty taste, but this step is optional. Diced, cooked ham, sautéed briefly in 
butter, may replace the bacon. 


For 4 to 6 servings 


3 to 4 ounces lean bacon (6 
to 8 slices, medium thick- 
ness) 

I quart water 

An 8-inch partially cooked 
pastry shell placed on a 
baking sheet, page 146 


3 eggs or 2 eggs and 2 yolks 

12 to 2 cups whipping 
cream or half cream and 
half milk 

12 tsp salt 

Pinch of pepper 

Pinch of nutmeg 

1 to 2 Tb butter cut into pea- 
sized dots 


Preheat oven to 375 degrees. 


Cut bacon into pieces about an inch long and 14 inch 
wide. Simmer for 5 minutes in the water. Rinse in cold 
water. Dry on paper towels. Brown lightly in a skil- 


‘let. Press bacon pieces into bottom of pastry shell. 


Beat the eggs, cream or cream and milk, and season- 


ings in a mixing bowl until blended. Check season- 
ings. Pour into pastry shell and distribute the butter 
pieces on top. 


Set in upper third of preheated oven and bake for 25 


to 30 minutes, or until guiche has puffed and 
browned. Slide quiche onto a hot platter and serve. 





Quiche au Fromage de Gruyère 


[Swiss Cheese Quiche | 


Follow the preceding recipe, but stir 2 to 4 ounces (14 to 1 cup) grated 
Swiss cheese into the egg and cream mixture. The bacon is usually omitted, 


and you may use all milk instead of cream. 


i CHAPTER FOUR: ENTRÉES AND LUNCHEON DISHES 


et 


| 
_ QUICHE AU ROQUEFORT 
[Roquefort Cheese Quiche | 


For 4 to 6 servings 


Preheat oven to 375 degrees. 


3 ounces (6 Tb) Roquefort Blend the cheese, butter, and cream with a fork, then 
or blue cheese beat in the eggs. Force the mixture through a sieve, 
6 ounces (2 small packages) to get rid of the lumps. Season to taste and stir in the 
cream cheese or cottage chives or green onion tops. Pour into the pastry shell 


cheese and set in upper third of preheated oven. Bake for 
2 Tb softened butter 25 to 30 minutes, or until quiche has puffed and top 
3 Tb whipping cream has browned. 
2 eggs 


Salt and white pepper 

Cayenne pepper to taste 

Y, Tb minced fresh chives 
or 2 tsp minced green 
onion tops 

An 8-inch partially cooked 
pastry shell placed on a 
baking sheet, page 146 


Quiche au Camembert 
[Camembert Cheese Quiche | 


Instead of Roquefort cheese, use the same amount of Camembert, Brie, 
or Liederkranz, but remove the outside crust of the cheese. Or use a mixture of 
all or some of these, including Roquefort cheese, if you have leftovers. 


QUICHE A LA TOMATE, NICOISE 
[Fresh Tomato Quiche with Anchovies and Olives] 


For 4 to 6 servings + 


Preheat oven to 375 degrees, 


QUICHES 


An 8- to 9-inch enameled or 
stainless steel skillet 

14 cup minced onions 

2 Tb olive oil 


174 to 2 lbs. firm, ripe, red 
tomatoes 

1 large clove mashed garlic 

V2 tsp oregano, basil, or 
thyme 

12 tsp salt 

V8 tsp pepper 


I egg and 3 egg yolks 

8 chopped anchovy filets 

3 Th olive oil (including oil 
from anchovy can) 

3 Tb tomato paste 

3 Tb chopped parsley 

I tsp paprika 

Pinch of cayenne pepper 


An 8-inch partially cooked 
pastry shell on a baking 
sheet, page 146 

12 pitted black olives (the 
dry Mediterranean type) 

14 cup grated Parmesan or 
Swiss cheese 

1 Tb olive oil 


149 





Cook the onions slowly in the olive oil for 5 minutes 
or so, until tender but not browned. 


Peel, seed, and juice the tomatoes, page 505, and chop 


- the pulp roughly. Stir the tomatoes into the skillet 


and add the garlic, herbs, and seasonings. Cover skil- 
let and cook for 5 minutes over low heat. Uncover, 
raise heat and cook for 5 minutes or so more, shaking 
pan occasionally, to evaporate the juice almost en- 


tirely. Allow to cool slightly. 


Beat the egg, egg yolks, anchovies, oil, tomato paste, 
parsley and seasonings in a mixing bowl until blended. 
Gradually fold in the cooked tomatoes. Check season- 


ing. 


Spread tomato mixture in pastry shell. Place olives 
over the top in a decorative design. Spread on the 
cheese and dribble the oil over it. Bake in upper third 
of preheated oven for 25 to 30 minutes, or until quiche 
has puffed and browned on top. 


QUICHE AUX FRUITS DE MER 
{ Shrimp, Crab, or Lobster Quiche] 


For 4 to 6 servings 


2 Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 


3 Tb butter 


Preheat oven to 375 degrees. 


Cook the shallots or onions in the butter for 1 to 2 
minutes over moderate heat until tender, but not 


browned. Add shellfish meat and stir gently for 2 


150 


14 Ib. (1 cup) cooked fresh 
or canned crab, or diced 
cooked fresh or canned 
shrimp or lobster 

14 tsp salt 

Pinch of pepper 

2 Tb Madeira or dry white 
vermouth 


3 eggs 

1 cup whipping cream 
1 Tb tomato paste 

14 tsp salt 

Pinch of pepper 


An 8-inch partially cooked 
pastry shell on a baking 
sheet, page 146 

14 cup grated Swiss cheese 


CHAPTER FOUR: ENTREES AND LUNCHEON DISHES 


minutes. Sprinkle on salt and pepper. Add wine, 
raise heat, and boil for a moment. Allow to cool 


slightly. 


Beat the eggs in a mixing bowl with the cream, to- 
mato paste, and seasonings. Gradually blend in the 
shellfish and taste for seasoning. 


» 


Pour mixture into pastry shell and sprinkle the cheese 
over it. Bake in upper third of preheated oven for 25 
to 30 minutes, until quiche has puffed and browned. 


QUICHE AUX OIGNONS 


[Onion Quiche] 
For 4 to 6 servings 


2 lbs. minced onions (about 
7 cups) 

. 3 Tb butter 

1 Tb oil 


1⁄2 Tb flour 


2 eggs or 3 yolks 

24 cup whipping cream 
I tsp salt 

Vs tsp pepper 

Pinch of nutmeg 


Cook the onions in a heavy skillet with the oil and 
butter over very low heat, stirring occasionally until 
they are extremely tender and a golden yellow. This 
will take about an hour. 


Sprinkle with the flour, mix well, and cook slowly for 
2 or 3 minutes. Allow to cool slightly. 


Preheat oven to 375 degrees. 





Beat the eggs or egg yolks in a mixing bowl with 
the cream and seasonings until blended. Gradually 
mix in the onions and half of the cheese. Check 
seasoning. Pour into tart shell. Spread on the rest of 
the cheese and distribute the butter over it. Bake in 


QUICHES 


2 ounces (72 cup) grated 
Swiss cheese 

An 8-inch partially cooked 
pastry shell on æa baking 
sheet, page 146 

1 Tb butter cut into pea- 
sized dots 


151 


upper third of preheated oven for 25 to 30 minutes, 
until guiche has puffed and browned. 


PISSALADIERE NICOISE 
[Onion Tart with Anchovies and Black Olives | 


This is not a quiche, properly speaking, because it contains no eggs. In 
Nice it is made either in a pastry shell or on a flat round of bread dough like 


the Italian pizza. 
For 4 to 6 servings 


2 lbs. minced onions 

4 Tb olive oil 

1 medium herb bouquet: 4 
parsley sprigs, 1% tsp 
thyme, and 1% bay leaf 
tied in washed cheesecloth 

2 cloves unpeeled garlic 

12 tsp salt 

1 pinch of powdered cloves 

Ye tsp pepper 


An 8-inch partially cooked 
pastry shell on a baking 
sheet, page 146 

8 canned anchovy filets 

16 pitted black olives (the 
dry Mediterranean type) 

1 Tb olive oil 


Cook the onions very slowly in the olive oil with the 


herb bouquet, garlic, and salt for about 1 hour, or 
until very tender. Discard herb bouquet and garlic. 
Stir in cloves and pepper, and taste carefully for 
seasoning. 


Preheat oven to 400 degrees. 


Spread the onions in the pastry shell. Arrange anchovy 


filets over it in a fan-shaped design. Place the olives at 
decorative intervals. Drizzle on the oil. Bake in upper 
third of the preheated oven for 10 to 15 minutes, or 
until bubbling hot. 





x FLAMICHE —- QUICHE AUX POIREAUX 


[Leek Quiche} 


For 4 to 6 servings 


Preheat oven to 375 degrees. 


152 


1 lb. sliced white of leek 
(about 312 cups) 
l2 cup water 


1 tsp salt 
3 Tb butter 


3 eggs 

112 cups whipping cream 

Pinch of nutmeg 

Yg tsp pepper 

An 8-inch partially cooked 
pastry shell on a baking 
sheet, page 146 

Y% cup grated Swiss cheese 

1 Tb butter cut into pea- 
sized dots 


CHAPTER FOUR: ENTREES AND LUNCHEON DISHES 


Boil the leeks over moderately high heat in a heavy- 


bottomed, covered saucepan with the water, salt, and 
butter until liquid has almost evaporated. Lower heat 
and stew gently for 20 to 30 minutes until leeks are 
very tender. 


Beat the eggs, credm, and seasonings in a mixing bowl 


to blend. Gradually stir in the leeks. Check seasoning. 
Pour into pastry shell. Spread on the cheese and dis- 
tribute the butter over it. Bake in upper third of pre- 
heated oven for 25 to 30 minutes, or until puffed and 
browned. 


Quiche aux Endives 


[Endive Quiche | 


Follow the preceding recipe, using sliced endive rather than leeks; add a 


teaspoon of lemon juice to their cooking water. 





Quiche aux Champignons 


[Mushroom Quiche] 


Use the same proportions of cream, eggs, grated cheese, and dots of butter 
as for the preceding leek quiche and an 8-inch partially cooked pastry shell. 
Prepare the mushrooms as follows: 


2 Tb minced 
green onions 

3 Tb butter 

1 lb. sliced fresh mushrooms 

I tsp salt 

1 tsp lemon juice 

Optional: 2 Tb Madeira or 
port 


shallots or 


Cook the shallots or onions in a heavy-bottomed 
saucepan with the butter for a moment. Stir in the 
mushrooms, salt, lemon juice and optional wine. 
Cover pan and cook over moderately low heat for 8 
minutes. Uncover. Raise heat and boil for several min- 
utes until liquid is completely evaporated and mush-~ 
rooms are beginning to sauté in their butter. 


QUICHES 


153 


Gradually stir the mushrooms into the eggs and 
cream. Pour into pastry shell, sprinkle with cheese, 
dot with butter, and bake for 25 to 30 minutes in a 
preheated 375-degree oven. 





Quiche aux Epinards 


[Spinach Quiche] 


Use the same proportions of cream, eggs, cheese, and butter as for the 


leek quiche, page 151, and an 8-inch partially cooked pastry shell. Prepare the 


spinach as follows: 


An enameled saucepan 

2 Tb finely minced shallots 
or green onion 

2 Tb butter 

114 cups chopped blanched 
spinach, page 468, or 
frozen spinach, page 475 

Y, tsp salt 

V8 tsp pepper 

Pinch of nutmeg 


Cook the shallots or onions for a moment in the but- 
ter. Add the spinach and stir over moderate heat for 
several minutes to evaporate all its water. Stir in salt, 
pepper, and nutmeg and taste carefully for seasoning. 
Gradually stir the spinach into the eggs and cream. 
Pour into pastry shell, sprinkle with cheese, dot with 
butter, and bake for 25 to 30 minutes in a preheated 
375-degree oven. 





GRATINEED DISHES 


Gratins 


Any of the quiche mixtures in the preceding section may be baked in a 
shallow fireproof dish or pyrex pie plate rather than a pastry shell. They then 
officially become gratins. Most of the following, although they look more grand 
in a shell, are so substantial that they are perhaps better in a dish. 





RAPEE MORV ANDELLE 
[ Gratin of Shredded Potatoes with Ham and Eggs and Onions | 


For 4 people 


Preheat oven to 375 degrees. 


154 


14 cup finely minced onions 
2 Tb olive oil 
2 Tb butter 


7, cup (3 ounces) finely 
diced cooked ham 


4 eggs 

12 clove crushed garlic 

2 Tb minced parsley and/or 
chives and chervil 

7; cup (3 ounces) grated 
Swiss cheese 

4 Tb whipping cream, light 
cream, or milk 

Pinch of pepper 

1 tsp salt 


3 medium-sized potatoes 
(about 10 ounces) 


2 Tb butter 

An 11- to 12-inch baking 
dish or skillet about 2 
inches deep or individual 
baking dishes about 6 
inches in diameter 

_Y% Tb butter cut into pea- 

sized dots 


CHAPTER FOUR: ENTREES AND LUNCHEON DISHES 


Cook the onions slowly in the oil and butter for 5 
minutes or so, until tender but not browned. 


Raise heat slightly, stir in ham, and cook a moment 


more. 


` R ` 
Beat the eggs in a mixing bowl with the garlic, herbs, 
cheese, cream or milk, and seasonings. Then blend in 
the ham and onions. 


Peel the potatoes and grate them, using large holes 


of grater. A handful at a time, squeeze out their wa- 
ter. Stir potatoes into egg mixture. Check seasoning. 
(*) May be prepared ahead to this point. 


Heat the butter in the dish. When foaming, pour in 


the potato and egg mixture. Dot with butter. Set in 
upper third of preheated oven and bake for 30 to 40 
minutes, or until top is nicely browned. Serve directly 
from the dish or skillet. 


* GRATIN DE POMMES DE TERRE AUX ANCHOIS 


[ Gratin of Potatoes, Onions, and Anchovies] 


For 4 people 


73 cup minced onions 


2 Tb butter 


? 


Preheat oven to 375 degrees. 


= + . > 
Cook the onions slowly in butter for 5 minutes or so, 


until tender but not browned. 


GRATINÉED DISHES 


72 lb. diced raw potatoes 
(about 2 cups) 


A 3- to 4-cup baking dish, 
1¥4 to 2 inches deep, such 
as an 8-inch pyrex pie 
plate 

8 to 10 anchovy filets packed 


in olive oil 


3 eggs beaten with 114 cups 
whipping cream, 1% tsp 
salt, and 4% tsp pepper; 
OR 2 cups well-seasoned 
béchamel sauce, page 57 


14 cup grated Swiss cheese 
1 Tb oil from anchovy can 
or butter 


VARIATIONS 


155 





Drop potatoes in boiling salted water and cook for 6 
to 8 minutes, or until barely done. Drain thoroughly. 


Butter the baking dish. Spread half the potatoes in 


the bottom, then half the cooked onions. Over them 
lay the anchovy filets, then the rest of the onions, and 


. finally the remaining potatoes. 


Pour the eggs and cream, or the béchamel sauce, over 


the potatoes and shake dish to send liquid to bottom. 


Spread on the cheese. Dribble on the oil, or dot with 


the butter. 
(*) May be prepared ahead to this point. 


Bake for 30 to 40 minutes in upper third of oven until 


top is nicely browned. 


Gratin de Pommes de Terre et Saucisson 


[ Gratin of Potatoes, Onions, and Sausages | 


Follow the preceding master recipe, but cut the potatoes in slices rather 
than dice, and substitute sliced uncooked Polish sausage for the anchovies, 
interspersing the sausage between the potato slices. 





Gratin de Poireaux 


[Gratin of Leeks with Ham] 


Use the same amount of eggs and cream or of béchamel sauce, as in the 
preceding potato and anchovy gratin, or substitute a sauce mornay (béchamel 
with cheese), page 61, and prepare the leeks as follows: 


12 leeks, 3⁄4 inch thick 


Use the white of the leeks only. Cut each into cross- 


wise sections about 2 inches long. 


156 CHAPTER FOUR: ENTRÉES AND LUNCHEON DISHES 


A heavy-bottomed saucepan Boil the leeks in a covered saucepan over moderately 


12 tsp salt high heat with salt, butter, and water until liquid has 

2 Tb butter almost completely evaporated. Lower heat and stew 

I cup water gently for 20 tov30 minutes until the leeks are very 
tender. 


6 to 8 thin slices of cooked Wrap each piece of leek in a piece of ham, arrange 
ham in buttered dish, cover with eggs and cream, or sauce, 
and bake as in the preceding master recipe. 


Gratin d’Endives f 
[Gratin of Endive with Ham] 


Use whole endives braised in butter, page 493, wrap in ham, cover with 
eggs and cream, or béchamel sauce, and bake as in the preceding master recipe. 


x GRATIN AUX FRUITS DE MER 
[Gratin of Creamed Salmon or Other Fish] 


A quick and delicious main-course dish can be made by combining a 
good cream sauce with canned salmon, tuna, or clams, or leftover cooked fish 
or shellfish. If you are using a baking dish, all may be prepared ahead, then set 
in the oven shortly before serving, but a pastry shell should not be filled until 
just before it goes into the oven. The following recipe is for salmon, but other 
fish may be substituted: 

For 4 to 6 people 


Preheat oven to 425 degrees. 


1⁄4 cup finely minced onions Cook the onions in butter in the saucepan over low 


3 Tb butter heat for 5 minutes or so, until onions are tender but 
A heavy-bottomed, 2-quart not browned. 
saucepan 
mi mm 
3 Tb flour Stir in the flour, and cook slowly for 2 minutes with- 


out coloring. 


1 cup boiling milk Off heat, beat in the boiling milk, then the wine, sal? 
Ya cup dry white wine or mon juice, and the seasonings. Now bring this sauce 
dry white vermouth to boil over moderately high heat, stirring. Boil sev- 


GRATINÉED DISHES 157 


Juice from salmon can, if eral minutes to evaporate the alcohol in the wine, and 


any allow the sauce to thicken considerably. Then thin it 
14 tsp salt out to a medium consistency with tablespoons of 
Pinch of pepper cream. Taste carefully for seasoning. 


l4 tsp oregano 
4 to 6 Tb whipping cream 





1¥ cups cooked or canned Fold the salmon and optional ingredients into the 
salmon sauce, and check seasoning again. Spread in baking 
Optional: sautéed mush- dish or pastry shell. Sprinkle on the cheese, and dis- 
rooms; sliced hard-boiled tribute the butter in pea-sized dots. Bake in upper 
eggs third of preheated oven for about 15 minutes, or until 
An 8-inch, shallow, baking top is nicely browned. 
dish 114 to 2 inches deep, 
or a cooked pastry shell, 
page 146 
14 cup grated Swiss cheese 
1 Tb butter 





VARIATIONS 


Gratin de Volaille 
Gratin de Cervelles 
Gratin de Ris de Veau 


[ Gratin of Chicken, Turkey, Brains, or Sweetbreads with Mushrooms] 


Exactly the same system as that for the preceding master recipe for fish 
gratin may be followed, using diced cooked chicken, turkey, brains, or sweet- 
breads. Combine with sautéed mushrooms, and warm the mixture briefly in 
butter with shallots or green onions. If you are short on meat, or wish to make 
the dish more filling, include cooked rice or noodles. Concentrated chicken 
stock or mushroom juice, or leftover chicken sauce may substitute for part of 
the milk in the béchamel sauce. If your sauce is carefully flavored, this is an 
attractive way to use leftovers. 


SOUFFLES 


A soufflé, quickly described, is a sauce containing a flavoring or purée 
into which stiffly beaten egg whites are incorporated. It is turned into a mold 
and baked in the oven until it puffs up and the top browns. 


158 CHAPTER FOUR: ENTRÉES AND LUNCHEON DISHES 


EGG WHITES 


The glory and lightness of French soufflés are largely a matter of how 
voluminously stiff the egg whites have been beaten and how nicely they have 
been incorporated into the soufflé base. Both beating and folding are per- 
fectly simple operations when you know the reasons behind the directions. 

A fluffy mass of beaten egg whites is actually hundreds of minute air 
bubbles all connected and enclosed by a film of egg white; the bubbles of air 
expand as the soufflé cooks in the oven, and that is what pushes it into its 
magnificent puff. Whether you beat them by hand in a copper bowl in the 
time-honored way of the old chefs of France, or whether you use electricity, 
your egg whites should mount * or 8 times their original volume. They 
should be perfectly smooth and have a velvety sheen, and they should be firm 
enough to stand in peaks as in the illustration on the opposite page. 


Warnings 

Egg whites will not mount properly if they contain particles of egg yolk, 
or if either bowl or beater is oily or greasy. Any of these elements interfere 
with the action of the egg whites in forming and sustaining those all-impor- 
tant air bubbles. Before you begin, therefore, wash your equipment with an 
efficient detergent, and dry it well. Room-temperature egg whites mount 
more voluminously than chilled egg whites, and chilled egg whites will often 
form coagulated specks when beaten. Thus either set chilled whole eggs in 
a bowl of tepid water for 10 minutes before separating them, or let the whites 
sit 15 to 20 minutes at room temperature before beating. 


Whips and bowls 

One of the unexplained mysteries of Ja cuisine is that the unlined copper 
bowl used by old French chefs produces splendidly smooth, velvety, and high- 
rising egg whites that remain stable for a surprisingly long time. Stable means 
that they do not lose their sheen or get watery a few minutes after you beat 
them. Fortunately a stainless steel bowl or a plastic bowl used only for egg 
whites (oil might get into the pores of plastic if you use it for mayonnaise, 
for instance), plus a pinch of cream of tartar, works very well also. The cream 
of tartar acts as a stabilizer. Glass and porcelain bowls are not recommended 
because their slippery sides don’t hold up the whites. You may use a large 
balloon-shaped wire whip 5 to 6 inches across at its widest diameter, or an «. 
electric beater. Here are directions for each. 


SOUFFLÉS = 


How to beat egg whites by hand - for 2 to 8 egg whites 

Provide yourself with a clean, dry balloon whip and a clean, dry round- 
bottomed bowl of unlined copper, stainless steel, or pristine plastic. The bowl 
should be 9 to 10 inches in diameter and 5 to 6 inches deep, and the whip 5 to 
6 inches in diameter. To keep the bowl from jumping about, either place it 
on a wet pot holder or set it in a heavy pot or casserole. 

Place the egg whites in the bowl, letting them sit for 15 to 20 minutes at 
room temperature if they have just come from the refrigerator. Start beating 
at a speed of 2 strokes per second with a vertical, circular motion for 20 to 30 
seconds, until the egg whites have begun to foam. Then, for 4 egg whites, add 
a pinch of salt—salt gives a slight flavor to the egg whites and is added even 
for sweet soufflés. If you are not using unlined copper, add also a scant 1⁄4 
teaspoon of cream of tartar for the 4 egg whites. 





Using your lower-arm and wrist muscles for beating—shoulder muscles 
tire quickly—gradually increase the beating speed to 4 strokes per second, 
beating as much air as possible into the mixture, and circulating the bowl so 
all the egg whites are entering into the action. 

Start testing as soon as the whites seem to be stiff by gathering a dollop 
in the wires of the whip and holding it upright. If peaks are formed like those 
in the illustration, you have achieved “stiffly beaten egg whites.” If not, beat 
a few seconds more and test again. When you arrive at the right consistency, 
the egg whites should be folded almost immediately into the soufflé mixture. 





160 CHAPTER FOUR: ENTRÉES AND LUNCHEON DISHES 


How to beat egg whites by machine—for 2 or more egg whites 

For the successful beating of egg whites by machine, you must have the 
kind of equipment that will keep all of the egg whites in motion all of the 
time. This is best accomplished by the kind of whip mechanism that rotates 
about itself as well as circulating about the bowl, and that bow] must be of a 
rather narrow and rounded shape. In other words, you want a machine of the 
type illustrated on page 10. If you have the old-fashioned mixer with a wide 
flat-bottomed bowl, substitute a narrower rounded bowl and you will be more 
successful, Otherwise use a rounded bowl and a hand-held electric beater that 
you circulate all around the bowl, pretending you are a heavy-duty mixer. 

Always start at slow speed for a minute or more, until the egg whites are 
broken up and begin to foam; gradually increase your speed and when the 
whites are softly foaming—in about another minute—beat in 4 teaspoon of 
cream of tartar and a big pinch of salt (for 4 egg whites). Gradually increase 
your speed to fast, taking another minute or so. Stand right over your egg 
whites all the time because it is easy to overbeat them. Stop and check them 
when the beater begins to leave traces on the surface, and beat to stiff shining 
peaks as in the previous illustration. 

Egg whites with sugar added 

When the egg whites are to be folded into a cake or sweet soufflé batter, 
you are usually directed to sprinkle in sugar after the whites have formed soft 
peaks, and you continue to the stiff shining-peak stage. Sugar stabilizes the 
egg whites and also makes for a stiffer texture. 

Overbeaten egg whites 

You can easily overbeat egg whites in an efficient machine—they lose their 
velvety shine, turn dull, look grainy and slightly lumpy, and, worse, lose their 
puffing abilities. You can usually bring them back into shape by beating in 
another egg white, which will not disturb your recipe proportions. 

Freezing egg whites 

Raw egg whites freeze, thaw, and whip up perfectly. Two egg whites 
make % cup, which you can freeze in custard cups, unmold, and pack in plas- 
tic containers for later defrosting. 

Folding in the egg whites 

After the main ingredients of the soufflé have been blended together 
and seasoned, the beaten egg whites are incorporated gently and delicately so 
that they will retain as much of their volume as possible. This process is known j 
as folding, and is accomplished as follows: 


SOUFFLÉS 161 





The technique of folding 


First stir a big spoonful of egg whites into the soufflé mixture to lighten it. 
Then with a rubber scraper, scoop the rest of the egg whites on top. Finally, 
still using your rubber scraper, cut down from the top center of the mixture 
to the bottom of the saucepan, then draw the scraper quickly toward you against 
the edge of the pan, and up to the left and out, as illustrated. You are thus 
bringing a bit of the soufflé mixture at the bottom of the pan up over the egg 
whites. Continue the movement while slowly rotating the saucepan, and 
rapidly cutting down, toward you, and out to the left, until the egg whites 
have been folded into the body of the soufflé. The whole process should not 
take more than a minute, and do not attempt to be too thorough. It is better 
to leave a few unblended patches than to deflate the egg whites. 


AHEAD-OF-TIME NOTES 


After your soufflé mold has been filled and is ready for the oven, you may 
set it aside in a warm place free from drafts. Cover it with a big empty pot or 
soup kettle. As long as it is protected, it will not begin to collapse for an hour. 


SOUFFLE MOLDS 


Although a soufflé can be cooked in a fairly shallow porcelain or pyrex 
dish—the usual type sold in America for this purpose—a more practical one is 
the cylindrical, metal mold known in France as a charlotte. Charlotte molds 
come in the following sizes, are inexpensive, and can be ordered from one of 
the French import shops if you cannot find them elsewhere. 


162 CHAPTER FOUR: ENTRÉES AND LUNCHEON DISHES 


CHARLOTTE MOLDS 


HEIGHT BOTTOM DIAMETER APPROXIMATE CAPACITY 
3% inches 4% inches + “7, ea Clips 
3% inches 512 inches 6 cups 
4 inches 6 inches 8 to 9 cups 


EEN 

If you do not have one of these, use a porcelain or pyrex mold holding 
whatever capacity your recipe specifies. American recipes for soufflés often 
direct that you use the regular American type of mold and give it added height 
by tying a double strip of buttered foil or brown paper around the dish and 
removing it when the soufflé is done. We have found this a nuisance, but if you 
like this method, calculate the capacity of the mold-plus-paper-collar according 
to the height and diameter measurements in the preceding table. 


Soufflé Molds 





Preparing the mold for the soufflé 

So that the soufflé may slide easily up during its rise, butter the sides and 
bottom of the mold heavily. Then roll grated cheese or bread crumbs around 
in it, paying particular attention to the inner circumference, which must be 
lightly but evenly coated. Turn the mold upside down and knock it on the 
table to dislodge excess cheese or bread crumbs. 


PLACEMENT IN THE OVEN 


A soufflé will always perform as it should if it is placed on a rack in the 
middle level of a preheated 400-degree oven and the temperature is immediately 
reduced to 375 degrees. 


GENERAL PROPORTIONS 


am 
Whether your soufflé is made with cheese, fish, spinach, or anything else, 
the proportions with few exceptions remain the same. 


SOUFFLÉS 163 





Amounts for a 6-cup | Amounts for an 8-cup 


Ingredients mold . | mold 
Thick béchamel or velouté | 234 Tb butter 3% Tb butter 
sauce 3 Tb flour 4% Tb flour 
| x cup liquid 172 cups liquid 
Egg yolks, beaten into sauce | 4 6 
Flavoring added: cheese, fish, | 34 cup 1% cups 


meat, vegetables 


Stiffly beaten egg whites 
folded in 


wi 


7 or 8 


WHEN IS IT DONE? 


After 25 to 30 minutes of baking in a 375-degree oven, the soufflé will 
have risen 2 or 3 inches over the rim of the mold and will have browned on 
top. If you like the center creamy, it may be served at this point, but it is fragile 
and will sink rapidly. It will collapse less readily if you allow it to cook 4 to 5 
minutes more, until a trussing needle or thin knife plunged into the center 
through the side of the puff comes out clean. A well-cooked soufflé will stay 
puffed for about 5 minutes in the turned-off hot oven. As it cools, it begins to 
sink. Therefore, there should be no lingering when a soufflé is to be eaten. 


HOW TO SERVE A SOUFFLE 


Puncture the top of the soufflé lightly with a serving spoon and fork—held 
vertically—and spread it apart for each serving. 





x SOUFFLE AU FROMAGE 
[Cheese Soufflé | 


This recipe is intended as a detailed guide to those that follow. All main- 
course soufflés follow this general pattern: 


For 4 people 


The soufflé sauce base 


A 6-cup soufflé mold, page Preheat oven to 400 degrees. 
162 


164 


1 tsp butter 
1 Tb grated Swiss or Parme- 
man cheese 


3 Tb butter 

A 2/2-quart saucepan 

3 Tb flour 

A wooden spatula or spoon 
1 cup boiling milk 

A wire whip 

12 tsp salt 

Ye tsp pepper 

A pinch of cayenne pepper 
Pinch of nutmeg 


4 egg yolks 


CHAPTER FOUR: ENTREES AND LUNCHEON DISHES 





Measure out all your ingredients. Butter inside of 
soufflé mold and sprinkle with cheese. 





Melt the butter in the saucepan. Stir in the flour with 
a wooden spatula ðr spoon and cook over moderate 
heat until butter and flour foam together for 2 min- 
utes without browning. Remove from heat; when 
mixture has stopped bubbling, pour in all the boiling 
milk at once. Beat vigorously with a wire whip until 
blended. Beat in the seasonings. Return over mod- 
erately high heat and boil, stirring with the wire 
whip, for 1 minute. Sauce will be very thick. 


Remove from heat. Immediately start to separate the 
eggs. Drop the white into the egg white bowl, and 
the yolk into the center of the hot sauce. Beat the 
yolk into the sauce with the wire whip. Continue in 
the same manner with the rest of the eggs. Correct 
seasoning. 

(*) May be prepared ahead to this point. Dot top of 
sauce with butter. Heat to tepid before continuing. 


The egg whites and cheese 


5 egg whites 

A pinch of salt 

* Coarsely grated Swiss, or 
Swiss and Parmesan 
cheese—*% to 1 cup (3 to 
4 ounces) depending un 
its strength 


Baking 


Add an extra egg white to the ones in the bowl and 
beat with the salt until stiff, as described and illus- 
trated, page 159. Stir a big spoonful (about one quar- 
ter of the egg whites) into the sauce. Stir in all but 
a tablespoon of the cheese. Delicately fold in the rest 
of the egg whites. Be careful not to overfold (see 
page 161). 


Turn the soufflé mixture into the prepared mold, which should be almost three 
quarters full. Tap bottom of mold lightly on the table, and smooth the surface of the 
soufflé with the flat of a knife. Sprinkle the remaining cheese on top. 

Set on a rack in middle level of preheated 4oo-degree oven and immediately turn 
heat down to 375. (Do not open oven door for 20 minutes.) In 25 to 30 minutes the - 
soufflé will have puffed about 2 inches over the rim of the mold, and the top will be 
nicely browned. Bake 4 to 5 minutes more to firm it up, then serve at once. 


SOUFFLÉS 





VARIATION 
Soufflé Vendôme 
[Soufflé with Poached Eggs] 


Prepare the soufflé mixture as in the preceding master recipe. Turn half 
of it into the prepared mold. Arrange 4 to 6 cold poached eggs (page 116) over 
the soufflé, and cover with the rest of the soufflé mixture. Sprinkle with cheese 
and bake for 25 to 30 minutes in a 375-degree oven. Dig carefully into the 
soufflé so as to lift out an unbroken egg with each serving. Poached eggs also 


may be baked in the following spinach soufflé: 


x SOUFFLE AUX EPINARDS 


[Spinach Soufflé] 
For 4 people 


A 6-cup soufflé mold, page 
162 


An enameled saucepan 

1 Tb minced shallots or 
green onion 

1 Tb butter 

34 cup blanched chopped 
spinach (or chopped 
frozen  spinach—which 
will take several minutes 
more cooking) 

4 tsp salt 


The soufflé sauce base, page 
163 


5 egg whites 

A pinch of salt 

4 to % cup (1% to 2 
ounces) grated Swiss 
cheese 


Butter the mold and sprinkle with cheese. Preheat 


oven to 400 degrees. Measure out your ingredients. 


Cook the shallots or onions for a moment in the but- 


ter. Add spinach and salt, and stir over moderately 
high heat for several minutes to evaporate as much 
moisture as possible from the spinach. Remove from 
heat. 


Prepare the soufflé sauce base. After the egg yolks 


have been beaten in, stir in the spinach. Correct sea- 
soning. 


Beat the egg whites and salt until stiff, page 159. Stir 


one fourth of them into the sauce. Stir in all but a 
tablespoon of the cheese. Fold in the rest of the egg 
whites and turn mixture into prepared mold. Sprin- 
kle with remaining cheese and set on a rack in the 
middle level of preheated oven. Turn heat down to 
375 degrees and bake for 25 to 30 minutes. 


166 


CHAPTER FOUR: ENTRÉES AND LUNCHEON DISHES 





VARIATIONS to be added to the preceding spinach soufflé: 


Ham 


14 cup finely minced boiled 
ham 


Mushrooms 


14 lb. finely minced mush- 
rooms 

1 Tb butter 

Salt and pepper 


Cook the ham with the butter and shallots for a mo- 
ment before adding the spinach. 


» 


an 


A handful at a time, twist the mushrooms in the 
corner of a towel to extract their juice. Sauté in the 
butter for 5 minutes or so until the mushroom pieces 
begin to separate from one another. Season to taste. 
Stir them into the soufflé mixture with the spinach. 


Other vegetable soufflés 


These are all done in exactly the same manner as the spinach soufflé. 
Use #4 cup of cooked vegetables, finely diced or puréed, such as mushrooms, 
broccoli, artichoke hearts, or asparagus tips. 


* SOUFFLE DE SAUMON 


[Salmon Soufflé] 
For 4 people 


A 6-cup soufflé mold, page 
162 

, I tsp butter 

1 Tb grated Swiss or Par- 
mesan cheese 


2 Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 

3 Tb butter 

A 2¥-quart saucepan 

3 Tb flour 

1 cup boiling liquid (juice 
from canned salmon, if 
any, and milk) 

2 tsp salt 

Ye tsp pepper 


Butter the mold and sprinkle with cheese. Preheat 


oven to 400 degrees. Measure out all your ingredients. 


Cook the shallots or onions in the butter for a mo- 
ment in the saucepan. Add the flour and cook 2 min- 
utes. Off heat, beat in the boiling liquid, then the 
seasonings, tomato paste, and herbs. Bring to boil, 
stirring, for 1 minute.’ 


SOUFFLÉS 167 


1 Tb tomato paste (for 
color) 
12 tsp oregano or marjoram 


4 egg yolks i Off heat, beat in the egg yolks one by one. Then beat 
74 cup shredded cooked or in the salmon and all but a tablespoon of cheese. 
canned salmon 
V2 cup (2 ounces) grated 
Swiss cheese 


5 egg whites Beat the egg whites and salt until stiff, see page 159. 

A pinch of salt Stir one fourth of them into the soufflé mixture. Fold 
in the rest. Turn into prepared mold and sprinkle 
with the remaining cheese. Set in middle level of pre- 
heated oven. Turn heat down to 375 degrees and bake 
for about 30 minutes. 


VARIATIONS 


With the same method and proportions, you can make a soufflé using 
34 cup of any of the following: 

Flaked canned tuna or any cooked fish 

Finely diced or ground cooked lobster, shrimp, or crab 

Ground cooked chicken or turkey 

Puréed cooked sweetbreads or brains 

If you wish to use raw fish or chicken, grind it, add it to the sauce base 
with the boiling milk, and boil for 2 minutes. Then beat in the egg yolks and 
proceed with the recipe. 





FISH SOUFFLES FROM THE 
HAUTE CUISINE 


These are only more complicated than the preceding soufflés in that each 
requires fish filets poached in white wine, and each is accompanied by a deli- 
cious type of hollandaise called sauce mousseline sabayon. The fish may be 
poached ahead of time, and the soufflé sauce base as well as the hollandaise 
may also be prepared in advance. Remember that if the hollandaise is to wait, 
it must be kept barely warm or it will thin out. If it is set aside to cool, reheat 


it very gently and not too much. 


168 


CHAPTER FOUR: ENTRÉES AND LUNCHEON DISHES 


x SOUFFLE DE POISSON 


[Fish Soufflé] 
For 4 to 6 people 


A 6-cup soufflé mold, page 
162 

1 tsp butter 

1 Tb grated Swiss or Par- 
mesan cheese 


Preparing the fish 
34 Ib. skinless flounder 
filets 
14 tsp salt 
Pinch of pepper 


1 Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 

12 cup dry white wine or 
dry white vermouth 


The soufflé mixture 


2/2 Tb flour 

3 Tb butter 

A 2¥4-quart saucepan 
1 cup boiling milk 

12 tsp salt 

78 tsp pepper 

The ground fish 


4 egg yolks 


5 egg whites 

A pinch of salt 

Ys cup (11⁄2 ounces) grated 
Swiss cheese 


Butter the mold and sprinkle with cheese. Measure 
out ingredients. Preheat oven to 400 degrees. 


Grind half the fish; you will have % to % cup of 
purée. Set it aside. Following directions for fish filets 
in white wine on page 208, season the rest of the filets, 
arrange them in a buttered baking dish with the shal- 
lots, wine, and enough water barely to cover them. 
Bring to the simmer, cover with buttered paper, and 
bake in bottom third of oven for 8 to 10 minutes or 
until a fork just pierces them easily. Strain out all the 
cooking liquor, boil it down in an enameled saucepan 
until it has reduced to 1⁄4 cup, and set it aside until 
later for your sauce mousseline sabayon. 


Cook the flour and butter together slowly in the sauce- 
pan for 2 minutes without coloring. Off heat, beat in 
the boiling milk, salt, pepper, and ground fish. Boil, 
stirring, for 2 minutes. 


Remove from heat and immediately beat in the egg 
yolks one by one. Taste for seasoning. 


Beat the egg whites and salt until stiff, page 159. Stir 
one fourth of them into the soufflé mixture. Stir in 
the cheese. Delicately fold in the rest of the cfg 
whites. 


SOUFFLÉS 


Filling the mold 


Baking the soufflé 


1 Tb grated Swiss cheese 


169 


Turn a third of the soufflé mixture into the prepared 
mold. Cut the poached fish filets into 2-inch strips 
about 4 inch wide, and arrange half of them over 


the soufflé. Cover them with half the remaining 


soufflé mixture, and arrange the rest of the filets over 
it. Cover them with the last of the soufflé mixture. 


Sprinkle the cheese on top, and set the mold in the 
middle level of the preheated, 400-degree oven. Im- 
mediately reduce heat to 375 degrees, and bake for 
about 30 minutes, or until the soufflé has puffed and 
browned and a needle or knife plunged into the side 
of the puff comes out clean. While the soufflé is cook- 


‘ing, prepare the following sauce as an accompani- 


ment. Serve the soufflé as soon as it is done. 


Sauce Mousseline Sabayon (14, cups) 


3 egg yolks 

12 cup whipping cream 

The % cup concentrated 
fish liquor 

A 4-cup enameled saucepan 
and a wire whip 


6 ounces (11⁄2 sticks) sof- 
tened butter divided into 
10 pieces 


Salt and pepper 
Lemon juice if necessary 


Beat the egg yolks, cream, and fish liquor over low 
heat until they gradually thicken into a light cream 
that coats the wires of the whip (165 degrees). Do 
not overheat or the egg yolks will scramble. 


Off heat, beat in the butter a piece at a time, beating 
until each is almost absorbed before adding another. 
The sauce will thicken like a hollandaise. 


Taste carefully for seasoning, and add drops of lemon 
juice if you feel they are needed. Keep sauce over 
tepid—not hot—water, and when the soufflé is done, 
pour the sauce into a warm sauceboat to accompany 
the soufflé. 


170 


CHAPTER FOUR: ENTRÉES AND LUNCHEON DISHES 





VARIATIONS 


Soufflé de Homard 


Soufflé de Crabe 


Soufflé aux Crevettes 


[Lobster, Crab or Shrimp 


Soufflé] 


Use the same soufflé mixture as in the preceding recipe, with about 
34 cup of ground flounder filets. Instead of poached fish filets in the center of 


the soufflé, use: 


24 cup cooked diced lobster, 
crab, or shrimp 

2 Tb butter 

Y% tsp salt 

Pinch of pepper 

3 Tb Madeira, sherry, or 
dry white vermouth 


Cook the diced shellfish gently in the butter and sea- 


sonings for 3 minutes. Then add the wine, cover the 
pan, and simmer for 1 minute. Raise heat and let 
liquid boil off quickly. 


Filets de Poisson en Soufflé 
[Fish Soufflé Baked on a Platter | 


A soufflé will also rise impressively when baked on a platter. This recipe 


is lighter than the preceding fish soufflé as it has no ground fish in its sauce 


base and only one egg yolk. 
For 6 people 


Y, lb. skinless flounder filets 

2 cup dry white wine or 
dry white vermouth 

12 tsp salt 

Pinch of pepper 

1 Tb minced 
green onions 


shallots or 


212 Tb butter 
3 Tb flour 


oven up to 425 degrees. 


Preheat oven to 350 degrees. 


Measure out ingredients. Poach the fish filets for 8 to 
10 minutes in wine, seasonings, and shallots as de- 
scribed in filets poached in white wine, page 208. 
Drain out all the cooking liquor and boil it down in 
an enameled saucepan ‘until it has reduced to 1⁄4 cup. 
Set it aside for your sauce mousseline sabayon. Turn 


Cook the butter and flour slowly in the saucepan for 
2 minutes without coloring. Off heat, beat in the boil- 


* 


SOUFFLÉS 


A 2/2-quart saucepan 
1 cup boiling milk 

14 tsp salt 

Pinch of pepper 
Pinch of nutmeg 

1 egg yolk 


4 or 5 egg whites 

Pinch of salt 

14 cup (2 ounces) coarsely 
grated Swiss cheese 


A buttered oval fireproof 
platter about 16 inches 
long 


Ingredients for 112 cups 
sauce mousseline saba- 


yon, page 169 


Tgi 


ing milk and seasonings. Boil, stirring, for 1 minute. 
Off heat, beat in the egg yolk. Check seasoning. 


Beat the egg whites and salt until stiff, page 159. Stir 


one fourth of them into the soufflé base. Stir in all but 
two tablespoons of the cheese. Delicately fold in the 
rest of the egg whites. 


Spread a 14-inch layer of soufflé in the bottom of the 


platter. Flake the poached fish filets and divide into 
6 portions on the platter. Heap the rest of the soufflé 
mixture over the fish, making 6 mounds. Sprinkle 
with the remaining cheese and set on a rack in upper 
third of preheated 425-degree oven. Bake for 15 to 18 
minutes, or until soufflé has puffed and browned on 
top. 


Meanwhile, prepare the sauce as directed in the master 


fish soufflé recipe. Pass it separately in a warm sauce- 
boat. 





SOUFFLE DEMOULE, MOUSSELINE 


[Unmolded Soufflé] 


Most unmolded soufflés are heavy, puddinglike affairs, but this one is 


light and delicious. You bake it slowly in a pan of water for over an hour, 


and then unmold it. Although it does not rise as high as its molded relatives, 


it sinks only a little bit, and may be kept warm for a good 30 minutes before 


it is served. You may adapt any of the soufflé combinations in the preceding 


recipes for unmolding if you use the same number of egg yolks and egg whites, 


and the same cooking method specified in the following recipe. Unmolded 


cheese soufflé makes a handsome first course, and a fine main course sur- 


rounded by or accompanied with chicken livers, sausages, mushrooms, green 


peas, or asparagus tips. 


For 6 people as a first course; 4, as a main course 





Preheat oven to 350 degrees. 


172 


1/2 cups tomato sauce or 
fresh tomato purée, page 


76 or 78 


12 Tb butter 

An 8-cup soufflé mold, pref- 
erably one 4 inches deep 

2 Tb finely grated Swiss or 
Parmesan cheese 


212 Tb butter 

3 Tb flour 

A 2/2-quart saucepan 
A wooden spoon 

34 cup boiling milk 
A wire whip 

12 tsp salt 

Big pinch of pepper 
Pinch of nutmeg 


3 egg yolks 
A wire whip 


6 egg whites 

A pinch of salt 

1 cup (4 ounces) coarsely 
grated Swiss cheese, or a 
combination of Swiss and 
Parmesan 


CHAPTER FOUR: ENTREES AND LUNCHEON DISHES 





Set the tomato sauce to simmering. 


` 
a u 3 


Butter your mold heavily, especially on the bottom so 


the soufflé will unmold easily. Roll cheese around in 
it to cover the bottom and sides. 


Stir the butter and flour over moderate heat in the 
saucepan until they foam and froth together for 2 
minutes without coloring. Off heat, vigorously beat 
in the boiling milk, then the seasonings. Boil over 
moderate heat, stirring, for 1 minute. Remove from 
heat. 


One by one, beat the egg yolks into the hot sauce. 
Correct seasoning. 


In a separate bowl, beat the egg whites and salt until 
stiff peaks are formed, page 159. Stir one fourth of the 
egg whites into the sauce base; then stir in the cheese. 
Delicately fold in the rest of the egg whites. 


Turn the mixture into the prepared mold, which the soufflé will fill by about two 
thirds. Set in a pan and pour boiling water around the mold to come up to the level 
of the soufflé mixture. Place in middle level of preheated oven and bake for about 
14 hours. Regulate heat so water in pan never quite simmers—this is important; 
soufflé must cook slowly. The soufflé is done when it has risen about half an inch 
over the top of the mold, is brown and crusty, and has just begun to show a faint 
line of shrinkage from the sides of the mold. 

Turn a warm serving plate over the soufflé; reverse them. Then, clamping mold 
and plate together, give a sharp downward jerk or two, and the soufflé will dislodge 
itself. If the mold was properly buttered, and the soufflé sufficiently cooked, it will 
unmold perfectly, and present a golden brown exterior. Surround the soufflé with 


SOUFFLÉS 17 


the tomato sauce, and serve. In the case of blemishes, pour the sauce over the soufflé 
and decorate with parsley. 


(*) For a wait of 30 minutes or so, leave the soufflé uñmolded in its pan of hot water, 
and return to hot, turned-off oven with door ajar. 


SOUFFLE AUX BLANCS D’OEUFS 
[Cheese Soufflé with Egg Whites Only] 


The following light soufflé with its strong cheese flavor is one way of 
using leftover egg whites. Remember that egg whites take well to freezing, 
so you can make a collection and do the soufflé when you have the right 
amount. One egg white equals 2 tablespoons. 

If you wish to make this type of soufflé with other flavorings, substitute 
24 cup of ground fish, chicken, sweetbreads, ham, or vegetables for two thirds 
of the diced cheese. 

For 4 people 


Preheat oven to 400 degrees. 


A 6-cup soufflé mold Butter the soufflé mold and sprinkle with grated 
cheese, page 162. Measure out your ingredients. 

2/2 Tb butter Cook the butter and flour slowly together in the sauce- 

3 Tb flour pan for 2 minutes without coloring. Off heat, beat in 

A 2'4-quart saucepan the simmering cream and seasonings. Boil, stirring, 


34 cup simmering light for 1 minute. Remove from heat. 
cream 

Y tsp salt 

Y% tsp pepper 


Big pinch of nutmeg 

6 or 7 egg whites (34 to % Beat the egg whites and salt until stiff, page 159. Stir 
cup) one fourth of them into the soufflé mixture. Stir in all 

Big pinch of salt but a tablespoon of the grated cheese, then the diced 


34, cup (3 ounces) coarsely cheese. Fold in the rest of the egg whites. 
grated Swiss cheese 

34 cup (3 ounces) Swiss 
cheese cut into '%-inch 
dice 





Turn mixture into the prepared mold, sprinkle with 
the remaining cheese, and set in middle level of pre- 


174 CHAPTER FOUR: ENTREES AND LUNCHEON DISHES 


heated, 400-degree oven. Immediately reduce heat to 
375 degrees and bake for 25 to 30 minutes, until 
soufflé has puffed and browned. Serve immediately. 





* TIMBALES DE FOIES DE VOLAILLE 
[Unmolded Chicken Liver Custards]  * 


These delicate little entrées (also called mousses, pains, and soufflés) are 
usually baked in individual ramekins and served hot with a béarnaise sauce. 
Or you can bake the ingredients in one large ring mold and fill the center with 
the sauce. It can be prepared very, quickly in an electric blender, but if you do 
not have one, put the livers through a meat grinder, push them through a sieve, 


then beat in the rest of the ingredients, 
For 4 cups serving 8 people 


1⁄2 Tb butter 

2 Tb flour 

1 cup boiling milk 
V4 tsp salt 

Pinch of pepper 


x lb. or about 2 cups of 
chicken livers 
2 eggs 
,2 egg yolks 
% tsp salt 
Ye tsp pepper 


6 Tb whipping cream 
2 Tb port, Madeira, or co- 
gnac 


Optional: x 
canned truffle 


chopped, 


1 Tb butter 
8 ramekins of 1-cup capac- 
ity, or a 4-cup ring mold 


Preheat oven to 350 degrees. 


Make a thick béchamel sauce in a small saucepan by 
cooking the butter and flour together until they foam 
for 2 minutes without coloring. Off heat, beat in the 
boiling milk and seasonings. Boil, stirring, for 1 
minute. Allow to cool while preparing other ingredi- 
ents, beating occasionally. 


Place the livers, eggs, egg yolks, and seasonings in 


the blender, cover, and blend at top speed for 1 
minute. 


Add the cool béchamel sauce, cream, and wine to the 
liver and blend for 15 seconds. Strain through a sieve 
into a bowl. 


Stir in the optional truffle and correct seasoning. 
(*) If not used immediately, cover and refrigerate. 


Butter the interior of the ramekins or mold heavily, - 
Pour in the liver mixture filling each ramekin or the 
mold to within about inch of the top. 


TIMBALES 175 


A pan containing 1 to 1/2 Set in pan of boiling water, then place on a rack in 
inches of boiling water middle level of preheated oven for 25 to 30 minutes, 
until a needle or knife plunged into the center comes 
out clean, and the timbales have just begun to show a 
line of shrinkage from the ramekins. 
(*) If not served immediately, leave in hot turned- 
off oven, with door ajar, for 15 to 20 minutes. 


2 cups sauce béarnaise, Run a knife around the edge of each timbale and re- 
page 84 verse onto a serving platter or serving plates. Top 
each with a spoonful of sauce, and pass the rest of the 

sauce separately. 


VARIATIONS 


Using the same proportions and method, substitute for the chicken livers 
any of the following cooked ingredients: ham, chicken, turkey, sweetbreads, 
salmon, lobster, crab, scallops, mushrooms, asparagus tips, or spinach. 


Other Sauces 


Sauce Aurore, béchamel or velouté with cream and a flavoring of tomato 
paste, page 62 

Sauce Madère, brown sauce with Madeira wine, page 75 

Sauce Périgueux, brown sauce with truffles, page 75 

Sauce Estragon, brown sauce with tarragon, page 73 





PUFFS, GNOCCHI, AND 
QUENELLES 


* PATE A CHOUX 
[Cream Puff Paste] 


Pâte à choux is one of those quick, easy, and useful preparations like bé- 
chamel sauce which every cook should know how to make. Probably the only 
reason for the packaged mix, which in addition to its purchase price requires 
fresh eggs and hot water, is that most people do not realize cream puff paste 
is only a very, very thick white sauce or panade of flour, water, seasonings, 
and buttter, into which eggs are beaten. The eggs make the paste swell as it 


176 


CHAPTER FOUR: ENTRÉES AND LUNCHEON DISHES 


cooks. For half the price of a packaged mix, and in less than ten minutes, you 
can make your own cream puff paste with the good taste of fresh butter. 

Baked just as it is in the following recipe or mixed with cheese, pâte à 
choux becomes puffs for hors d'oeuvres. Sweetened with sugar, it is ready to 
be cream puffs. When mashed potatoes or cooked semolina is beaten in, it turns 
into gnocchi. And with ground fish, veal, or chicken, it 1s quenelle paste, or 


can become a mousse. 
For about 2 cups 


A 1%-quart, heavy-bot- 
tomed saucepan 

1 cup water 

3 ounces (6 Tb or % stick) 
butter cut into pieces 

r tsp salt 

Ye tsp pepper 

Pinch of nutmeg 


34 cup all-purpose flour 


(scooped and leveled, see 
page 17) 


4 eggs (U.S. graded “large”) 


N 


Bring water to boil with the butter and seasonings 
and boil slowly until the butter has melted. Mean- 
while measure out the flour. 


Remove from heat and immediately pour in all the 
flour at once. Beat vigorously with a wooden spatula 
or spoon for several seconds to blend thoroughly. 
Then beat over moderately high heat for 1 to 2 
minutes until mixture leaves the sides of the pan and 
the spoon, forms a mass, and begins to film the bot- 
tom of the pan. 


Remove saucepan from heat and make a well in the 
center of the paste with your spoon. Immediately 
break an egg into the center of the well. Beat it into 
the paste for several seconds until it has absorbed. 
Continue with the rest of the eggs, beating them in 
one by one. The third and fourth eggs will be ab- 
sorbed more slowly. Beat for a moment more to be 
sure all is well blended and smooth. 





Pâte à choux for Dessert Puffs 


For dessert puffs, only a suggestion of sugar—1 teaspoon—is added to` l 
boil with the water and butter in the preceding recipe, and the salt is reduced 


PÂTE À CHOUX 177 


from 1 teaspoon to a pinch. Otherwise there is no difference in ingredients 
or method. 


Leftover pâte à choux 


Pâte à choux is usually employed as soon as it is made, and while it is still 
warm. If it is not used immediately, rub the surface with butter and cover with 
waxed paper to prevent a skin from forming over it. If your recipe then speci- 
fies warm pâte à choux, beat it vigorously in a heavy-bottomed saucepan over 
low heat for a moment until it is smooth and free from lumps and is barely 
warm to your finger. Be very careful not to warm it to more than tepid or the 
paste will lose its puffing ability. Pate à choux may be kept under refrigeration 
for several days, or it may be frozen. Reheated gently as just described, it will 
produce a good small puff; large puffs may not always rise as high as those 
made with fresh paste. 

If you wish to make hot hors d’oeuvres in a hurry, leftover pate à choux 
can help you. Beat 3 or 4 tablespoons of heavy cream into 4 cup of warmed 
pâte à choux, then several tablespoons of grated cheese, minced ham, or minced 
clams. Spread the mixture on crackers, toast, or triangles of bread, pop them 
into a hot oven, and in 15 minutes you will have lovely puffed canapés. 


PUFF SHELLS 
Choux 





You cannot fail with puff shells—as mounds of pâte à choux puff and 
brown automatically in a hot oven—if you take the proper final measures to 
insure the shells remain crisp. A perfect puff is firm to the touch, tender and 
dry to the taste. Hot puffs will seem perfectly cooked when taken from the 


178 CHAPTER FOUR: ENTRÉES AND LUNCHEON DISHES 


oven, but, if left as they are, they will become soggy as they cool because there 
is always an uncooked center portion that gradually spreads its dampness 
through to the outside crust. To prevent this sad effect, small puffs are punc- 
tured to release steam; large puffs are slit, and often their uncooked centers 
are removed. This is actually the only secret to puff making. 

When you have done puff shells once or twice you will find that it takes 
less than 30 minutes from start to finish to makè them ready for the oven, and 
that they are a wonderfully useful invention. Hot, bite-sized, filled puffs make 
delicious appetizers. Large ones may contain creamed fish, meat, or mush- 
rooms and be a hot first course. And sweet puffs with ice cream or custard fill- 
ing and chocolate or caramel topping are always an attractive dessert. 


The Pastry Bag 


A pastry bag makes the neatest puffs. If you do not have one, drop the 
paste on the baking sheet with a spoon. 





Small Puffs 
For 36 to 40 puffs 114 to 11% inches in diameter 


Preheat oven to 425 degrees. 








£ \ A" 
k = 
Ingredients for 2 cups warm Make the pére à choux. , To 


pate à choux from the Fold the top 3 inches of the pastry bag over your left 

preceding recipe hand as illustrated. Using a rubber spatula, fill the bag 
A pastry bag with %-inch, with the warm choux paste. 

round tube opening 





PUFF SHELLS 


179 








2 buttered baking sheets Squeeze the paste onto the baking sheets, making 
circular mounds about 1 inch in diameter and !/ inch 
high. Space the mounds 2 inches apart. 


1 egg beaten with % tsp Then dip your pastry brush into the beaten egg and 


water in a small bowl flatten each puff very slightly with the side of the 
A pastry brush brush. Avoid dripping egg down the puff and onto 
the baking sheet, as this will prevent the puff from 

rising. 


Set the sheets in the upper and lower thirds of your 
preheated, 425-degree oven, and bake for about 20 
minutes. The puffs are done when they have doubled 
in size, are a golden brown, and firm and crusty to 
the touch. Remove them from the oven and pierce the 
side of each puff with a sharp knife. Then set in the 
turned-off oven and leave the door ajar for 10 minutes. 
Cool the puffs on a rack. 





Large Puffs 
For 10 to 12 puffs about 3 inches in diameter 
Use the same ingredients as in the preceding recipe, but provide your 


pastry bag with a 34-inch, round tube opening. Squeeze the choux paste onto 
the baking sheets in mounds 2 to 244 inches in diameter and 1 inch at the 


180 CHAPTER FOUR: ENTRÉES AND LUNCHEON DISHES 


highest point. Space the mounds 2 inches apart. Flatten each mound slightly 
with the flat of your pastry brush dipped into the beaten egg. Place the baking 
sheets in the upper and lower thirds of a preheated, 425-degree oven and bake 
for 20 minutes, or until the puffs have doubled in size and are lightly browned. 
Then reduce heat to 375 degrees and bake for 10 to 15 minutes more, or until 
the puffs are golden brown, and firm and crusty to the touch. Remove from 
oven, and make a s-inch slit in the side of each puff. Return the puffs to the 
hot, turned-off oven, and leave its door ajar for 10 minutes. Then open one 
puff as a test. If its center is damp, ezther reach into the other puffs through 
their slits with the handle of a teaspoon and remove their damp centers, or 
cut all the puffs in two horizontally, and scrape out the uncooked portions 
with a fork. Allow the halves to cool and crisp, then re-form the puffs. 


Freezing Puff Shells 


Puff shells freeze perfectly. Just before using frozen puffs, set them in a 
425-degree oven for 3 to 4 minutes to thaw and crisp them. 


Filling Puff Shells 


For appetizer or entrée puffs, use any of the cream fillings on pages 201 
to 203. Exther place the filling in a pastry bag, slit the sides of the puffs, and 
squeeze in the filling, or remove the tops of the puffs and insert the filling 





with a spoon. Reheat for 2 to 3 minutes in a 425-degree oven. For dessert pufts, i 
use ice cream, or the custard filling, crème pâtissière on page 590, plain or with 
beaten egg whites. 


PUFF SHELLS 181 





Petits Choux au Fromage 
[Cheese Puffs] 


As cocktail appetizers, these may be served hot or cold, and need no filling. 
Because of the large amount of cheese, they do not rise as high as plain puffs. 


For about 40 puffs, 113 inches in diameter when baked 
Preheat oven to 425 degrees. 


1 cup (4 ounces) grated Beat the cheese into the warm pdte à choux. Correct 
Swiss, or Swiss and Par- seasoning. Squeeze into circular mounds on a baking 


mesan, cheese sheet, paint with beaten egg, and bake as in the pre- 
2 cups warm pdte à choux, ceding recipe for small puffs. After painting with 
page 175 egg, you may, if you wish, sprinkle each puff with a 


pinch of grated cheese. 


GNOCCHI 


Gnocchi and quenelles are types of dumplings made of pâte à choux 
into which a purée is beaten. They are shaped into ovals or cylinders and are 
poached for 15 to 20 minutes in salted water or bouillon until they swell almost 
double in size. After they have drained, they may be covered with a hot sauce, 
or they may be gratinéed with cheese and butter, or with a sauce. 

Both gnocchi and quenelles are relatively simple to make, and as they may 
be poached ahead of time and either refrigerated or frozen, they are a useful 
addition to one’s cooking repertoire. 





* GNOCCHI DE POMMES DE TERRE 
[Potato Gnocchi] 


These make a good luncheon dish, or may be used as a starchy vegetable 


to accompany a roast. 
For about 12 gnocchi, 3 by 113 inches when cooked 


3 to 4 medium-sized baking Peel and quarter the potatoes. Boil in salted water 
potatoes (x pound) until tender. Drain and put through a ricer, You 
should have 2 cups. 


182 CHAPTER FOUR: ENTREES AND LUNCHEON DISHES 


I cup warm péte à choux, 
page 175 

4 cup (1% ounces) grated 
Swiss, or Swiss and Par- 
mesan, cheese 


A 12-inch skillet of simmer- 
ing salted water 


TO SERVE 


Dry out the potatoes by stirring them in a heavy-bot- 
tomed saucepan over moderate heat for a minute or 
two until they film the bottom of the pan. Remove 
from heat. ; & = a 


Beat the pâte à choux and the cheese into the potatoes. 
Correct seasoning. x 


Take the mixture by dessert-spoonfuls and roll it with 


the palms of your hands on a lightly floured board to 
form cylinders about 214 inches long and 1 inch in 
diameter. 


Slip the gnocchi into the simmering water and poach, 


uncovered, for 15 to 20 minutes. Water should remain 
almost but not quite at the simmer throughout the 
cooking. If it boils, the gnoccht may disintegrate. 
When they have swelled almost double, and roll over 
easily in the water, they are done. Drain on a rack or 
a towel. Serve as in the following suggestions: 


Gnocchi Gratinés au Fromage 
[Gnocchi Baked with Cheese] 


The preceding gnocchi 

2 cup grated Swiss or Par- 
mesan cheese 

2 Tb butter cut into pea- 
sized dots 


Arrange the drained gnocchi in a shallow, buttered, 


baking dish. Spread the cheese over them and dot 
with the butter. Set aside uncovered. 


Ten minutes before serving time, reheat and brown 
them slowly under a moderately hot broiler. 





Gnocchi Mornay 


[Gnocchi Baked with Cheese Sauce] 


GNOCCHI 


183 


For about 3 cups of sauce 


4 Tb butter 

4% Tb flour 

A 2-quart saucepan 
3 cups boiling milk 
34 tsp salt 

1% tsp pepper 

Big pinch of nutmeg 


34 cup (3 ounces) coarsely 
grated Swiss cheese 


The potato gnocchi, page 
181 

3 Tb finely grated Swiss 
cheese 

1 Tb butter cut into pea- 
sized dots 


Cook the butter and flour together slowly in the 


saucepan for 2 minutes without coloring. Off heat, 
beat in the boiling milk and seasonings. Boil, stirring, 
for 1 minute. 


Remove from heat and beat for a moment to cool 
slightly. Then beat in the cheese and correct season- 


ing. 


Arrange the gnocchi in a buttered baking dish about 


2 inches deep. Spoon the cheese sauce over them, 
sprinkle with cheese, and dot with the butter. Set 


aside uncovered. 


About 10 minutes before serving time, reheat and 


brown slowly under a moderately hot broiler. 


ADDITIONS TO THE POTATO GNOCCHI PASTE on page 181. 


Any of the following may be mixed into the gnocchi paste along with the 
cheese, and are especially good if your gnocchi are to be served as a main course. 

3 to 4 TB minced fresh green herbs, such as chives and parsley 

l4 to ⁄ cup minced cooked ham or bacon 

Y4 to Y, cup sautéed diced mushrooms or chicken livers 





GNOCCHI DE SEMOULE AVEC PATE A CHOUX - 


PATALINA 


[Semolina Gnocchi] 


Italian gnocchi are made of semolina with butter and seasonings. This 
French version with pate à choux gives the semolina a puff and a lighter texture. 
Semolina is farina, which in turn is the residue of middle-sized particles left 
over from the sifting of durum wheat, the type of wheat used for making 


184 CHAPTER FOUR: ENTREES AND LUNCHEON DISHES 


macaroni. Untreated semolina takes 20 to 30 minutes to cook. Quick-cooking 
farina breakfast cereal, which is semolina, cooks in 3 or 4 minutes. 
For about 12 pieces, 3 by 112 inches when cooked 





14 cups water Bring the water to a boil in a saucepan with the but- 
x Tb butter ter and seasonings. 

14 tsp salt | 

Ye tsp pepper 


Pinch of nutmeg 





Y% cup (2 ounces) quick- Stirring the boiling water with a wooden spoon, 
cooking farina breakfast gradually sprinkle in the farina. Boil, stirring, for 3 to 
cereal 4 minutes until the cereal is thick enough to form a 

mass on the back of the spoon. (You will have about 
11⁄4 cups of cereal.) 


Y% cup (2 ounces) grated Beat the cereal, then the cheese, into the pate à choux. 
Swiss or Parmesan cheese Correct seasoning. 
2 cups warm péte à choux, 


page 175 


Roll the gnocchi paste into cylinders on a floured 
board, poach in salted water, drain, and brown under 
the broiler with grated cheese or cheese sauce as for 
the potato gnocchi in the preceding recipes. 





QUENELLES 


A quenelle, for those who are not familiar with this delicate triumph of 
_ French cooking, is a mixture of pâte à choux, cream, and purée of raw fish, veal, 
or chicken that is formed into ovals or cylinders and poached in a seasoned 
liquid. Served hot in a fine sauce, quenelles make a distinguished first course 
or luncheon dish—they are individual small independent mousses really, almost 
as light as a soufflé, with just enough body to hold themselves in shape for 
poaching. If the mixture is too solid, the quenelle will have a dry and heavy 
texture. You therefore want to choose the kind of fish—if it’s fish quenelles 
you’re making—that has the firm gelatinous flesh that will absorb the maxi- 
mum amount of cream. It’s the cream that makes for lightness and delicacy 
of texture. 


Manufacturing note s 


In the 1950s, when we were working on our book in France, any kind of 


QUENELLES 185 
a mousse mixture like this was an arduous process because it was the era BFP— 
Before Food Processor. Quenelles were the province of the haute cuisine, or 
at least of the great restaurants with plenty of young apprentice cooks to do 
the dog work. First the fish had to be pounded with a large wooden pestle in 
a vast marble mortar. When reduced to a purée, it was beaten into a pâte à 
choux and turned out onto a large drum-shaped sieve. Then began the hateful 
process of rubbing it through that sieve with a wooden masher—you had to 
eliminate gristly bits, bones, and so forth. After you rubbed it through, you 
removed the sticky mass off the bottom of the sieve with an oval-shaped palm- 
sized scraper made of horn—actual animal horn. (That was also the era Bp, 
Before Plastics.) Then you beat the mixture over ice to chill it so that you 
could beat in as much cream as it would take and still hold its shape. It took, 
literally, hours to do, and was perfectly delicious—but not the least of it was 
the washing of that drum sieve when you were through, scrubbing bone bits 
out of tiny mesh crevices. Not an everyday affair, for the home cook at least. 

We thought we were clever indeed, in our first edition, to have eliminated 
the mortar and pestle. The electric blender, which did exist at that time, was 
not at all satisfactory, but we found that two times through the fine blade of 
the meat grinder, a chilling, and a beating up with the electric mixer made a 
more than satisfactory quenelle. We eliminated that self-torture, the sieve, and 
eliminate it still; some cooks, however, do use it, and sieving does undeniably 
produce a more velvety texture. Sieving is optional, in this book. 

Now, of course, with the food processor, all of the preceding is ancient 
lore. Quenelles and mousses take literally minutes and have stepped out of the 
never-never land of ultra fancy food into the everyday life of the average home 


cook. 


* QUENELLES DE POISSON 

[Fish Quenelles] 

Fish quenelles in France are usually labeled quenelles de brochet, and are 
presumably made from pike, a fish of excellent flavor but so webbed with little 
shadlike bones that a quenelle is the most convenient way of eating it. If you do 
use pike, then, you will have to pound it in a mortar and then sieve it or you'll 
never rid it of bones. However, boneless fish filets may be puréed as is. 


Choice of fish 
Choose fish with lean, close-grained flesh of a slightly gelatinous quality. 
Flimsy, light-textured fish, like most flounder, will absorb little cream and 


186 


CHAPTER FOUR: ENTREES AND LUNCHEON DISHES 


will therefore produce a rather dull and dry quenelle. Halibut and monkfish 
do nicely, as does gray sole or winter flounder. Very fresh petrale sole is also 
excellent. Less available choices are silver hake (merlan), green or ocean cod 


(colin), conger or sea eel (congre). ie d 
For about 16 quenelles 
The pâte à choux—for 2 cups | «à 
I cup water Following the general directions for pâte à choux on 


A 1¥%4-quart heavy-bottomed 
saucepan 

1 tsp salt 

4 Tb butter 

34, cup flour (scooped and 
leveled, see page 17) 

2 “large” eggs 

2 egg whites (14 cup) 

A 4-quart mixing bowl with 
a tray of ice cubes and 
water to cover them 


The quenelle mixture 
11⁄4 lbs. (2% packed cups) 
well-chilled skinless and 
boneless lean fish filets 
from the preceding sug- 
gestions 
A food processor 
blade) 
Y tsp salt 
14 tsp white pepper 
4 to 6 to 8 or more Tb 
chilled heavy whipping 
cream 
A rubber spatula 


(steel 


A saucepan of almost sim- 
mering salted water 


2 Tb chopped truffle 
OR, a big pinch of nutmeg 


page 175, bring the water to the boil in the saucepan 
with the salt and butter. As soon as the butter has 
melted, remove the saucepan from heat and beat in 
all the flour at once with a wooden spatula or spoon. 
Then beat over moderately high heat for several min- 
utes until the mixture forms a mass. Off heat and 
one by one, beat in the eggs, then the egg whites. Set 
saucepan in the bowl of ice and stir for several min- 
utes to cool; leave in the ice while you prepare the 
fish, and be sure the pâte à choux is well chilled be- 
fore you combine the two. 


Cut the chilled fish filets into 1-inch strips, then into 
r-inch pieces, and place in the bow] of the processor, 
along with the chilled pte à choux from the pre- 
vious step, salt, pepper, and 4 tablespoons of chilled 
cream. Process 30 seconds or so, stopping if necessary 
to scrape down sides of bowl with rubber spatula. If 
the mixture seems stiff, blend in more cream by the 
tablespoon—you want to add as much as it will take, 
but the mixture must hold its shape well in a mass 
on the spoon. 


Scoop out a dollop as a test, drop it into the almost 
simmering water, and let it poach several minutes. 
Taste it: process in more cream if you think it can be 
absorbed—but better too little than too much! Add 
more seasonings, too, if you think them necessary. 
Then blend in the truffle or nutmeg. (If you are not ` 
proceeding at once to the next step, refrigerate the 
mixture.) 


QUENELLES 


187 


Shaping quenelles and poaching them 


a dessert spoons in a cup of 


cold water 

A 12-inch skillet containing 
3 to 4 inches of barely sim- 
mering fish stock or salted 
water 


Fish Mousse 


In Case of Disaster 


(The spoon method described here makes the most 
delicate quenelles. A neater-looking but less light- 


‘textured alternative is to roll them into cylinders on 


a floured board as for the gnocchi on page 181.) 


With a wet spoon, dip out a rounded mass of the cold 
quenelle paste. Transfer the spoon to your left hand. 
Smooth the top of the paste with the inverted bowl 
of the second wet spoon. Then slip the bowl of the 
second spoon under the quenelle to loosen it and drop 
it into the barely simmering liquid. Rapidly form 
quenelles with the rest of the paste in the same man- 
ner. Poach them uncovered for 15 to 20 minutes, 
never allowing the water to come beyond the barest 
suggestion of a simmer. The quenelles are done when 
they have about doubled in size and roll over easily. 
Remove with a slotted spoon, and drain on a rack 


‘or a towel. 


(*) If the quenelles are not to be served immediately, 
arrange them in a lightly buttered dish, brush them 
with melted butter, cover with waxed paper, and re- 
frigerate. They will keep perfectly for one to two days. 





If by any chance your quenelle paste turns out to be too soft to poach as 
quenelles, it will taste every bit as good if you declare it to be a mousse. Pack it 
into a buttered soufflé mold, a ring mold, or individual serving molds. Set in a 
pan of boiling water and bake in a preheated 350-degree oven until the mousse 
has risen and shows a faint line of shrinkage from the sides of the mold. Un- 
mold and serve with any of the fish sauces suggested on pages 214 to 216, or 
with the delicious sauce mousseline sabayon in the fish soufflé recipe on page 


169. 


188 CHAPTER FOUR: ENTRÉES AND LUNCHEON DISHES 


Sauces for Quenelles 


Quenelles may be served as in the following recipe, in which they may be 
sauced ahead of time and gratinéed just before serving; or hot quenelles may 
be coated with a hot sauce. If you choose the latter system and the quenelles 
have been prepared in advance, cover them and heat them through in a buttered 
dish for 10 to 15 minutes in a 350-degree oven. Then sauce them. Fish quenelles 
may be substituted for poached fish filets in any of the recipes for fish on pages 
214 to 216, which include the fine, rich, buttery sauces such as Nantua and nor- 


mande. 





Gratin de Quenelles de Poisson 
[Quenelles Gratinéed in White Wine Sauce | 


Sauce suprème de poisson (4 cups) enough for 16 poached quenelles, 


page 185 


5 Tb butter 

7 Tb flour 

A 2-quart enameled sauce- 
pan 

1¥, cups boiling milk 

1% cups boiling, concen- 
trated, white-wine fish 
stock, page 114 

14 tsp salt 

4 tsp white pepper 


‘34 to 1 cup whipping cream 
Salt and pepper 
Lemon juice 


A lightly buttered bak- 
ing dish 2 inches deep 

3 Tb grated Swiss cheese 

1 Tb butter cut into pea- 
sized dots 


Cook the butter and flour slowly together in the 
saucepan for 2 minutes without coloring. Off heat, 
beat in the boiling milk, fish stock, and seasonings. 
Boil, stirring, for 1 minute. Sauce will be very thick. 


Slowly simmering the sauce, thin it out with the 


cream, stirred in by tablespoons. Sauce should be 
thick enough to coat the spoon fairly heavily. Taste 
carefully for seasoning, adding salt, pepper and drops 
of lemon juice as you feel it necessary. 


Pour 4 inch of sauce in the baking dish. Arrange the 


drained quenelles on top and spoon the rest of the 
sauce over them. Sprinkle with cheese and dot with 
the butter. Set aside uncovered. 


and brown slowly under a moderate broiler. 


EE 2 + | 
About 10 to 15 minutes before serving time, reheat 


QUENELLES 18 9 





Quenelles aux Huitres 
[Fish Quenelles with Oysters] 





V2 Tb minced shallots ar Sauté the shallots in butter for a moment in a small 


green onions saucepan. Add the oysters, wine, and seasonings. 
1 Tb butter Poach at just below the simmer for 3 to 4 minutes, 
12 large oysters, shelled until the oysters swell. Drain the oysters. Boil the 


2 cup dry white wine or % poaching liquid over high heat until it is reduced by 
cup dry white vermouth half, and reserve it for your sauce. 

Y% tsp salt 

Pinch of pepper 


Ingredients for the fish Roll one oyster into each cylinder of the fish quenelle 
quenelle paste, page 185 paste. Poach and sauce the quenelles in the same 
manner as the fish quenelles in the preceding recipes. 


Quenelles de Saumon 
[Salmon Quenelles | 


Use exactly the same proportions and method as given in the master recipe 
for the fish quenelles, page 185, substituting 2 cups of raw salmon, or well- 
drained canned salmon, for the white-fleshed fish. You may wish to include 
a tablespoon of tomato paste for added color. Serve with the fish velouté sauce, 
or with any of the other sauces suggested for fish quenelles. 


Quenelles de Crustacés 
[Shrimp, Lobster, or Crab Quenelles] 
Using exactly the same proportions and method as given in the master 


recipe for the fish quenelles on page 185, substitute 2 cups of raw, cooked, or 
canned shrimps, lobster, or crab for the fish. The same sauces also apply. 





Quenelles de Veau-Quenelles de Volaille 
[ Veal, Chicken, or Turkey Quenelles] 


These can be delicious as a light luncheon or supper dish, and follow the 
same procedure as for the fish quenelles in the master recipe. 


Ingredients for quenelles, Have both meat and pére à choux well chilled before 
page 185, but substitute puréeing in the processor, and cut the meat into r-inch 
the following for the 2 cubes. You can probably add more cream for meat 


190 CHAPTER FOUR: ENTRÉES AND LUNCHEON DISHES 


cups of fish: 2 cups raw than fish, because meat has more body. Test in almost 
veal, chicken, or turkey, simmering stock or lightly salted water before form- 
minus all skin, bones, and ing, and make sure of the seasoning. Then form into 
gristle quenelles and arrange in the skillet. Cover by 2 inches 
A 12-inch buttered skillet with boiling stock’ or water. Poach for 15 to 20 min- 
Boiling well-seasoned chick- utes. Drain, and serve in one of the following ways: 
en or veal stock, or salted 


` 
water 





TO SERVE 


Quenelles au Gratin. Use the same proportions and method as for the velouté 
with cream in the gratin recipe, page 188, substituting the veal or chicken 
stock in which you poached the quenelles for the fish stock and all or part 
of the milk. 

Or use the cheese sauce in the gnocchi recipe on page 182. 

Quenelles, Sauce Madère. Pour over the hot quenelles a brown sauce flavored 
with Madeira: sauce madère, page 75, or sauce périgueux (with trufflés), 


page 75- 


FRENCH PANCAKES 
Crépes 


Every French household makes use of crépes, not only as a festive dessert 
for Mardi Gras and Candlemas Day, but as an attractive way to turn leftovers 
or simple ingredients into a nourishing main-course dish. Crépes may be rolled 
around a filling of fish, meat, or vegetables, spread with sauce, and browned 
under the broiler. More spectacular is a gâteau de crépes in which the pancakes 
are piled upon each other in a stack of 24, each spread with a filling. This is 
then heated in the oven and gratinéed with a good sauce. Or the crépes may be 
piled in a soufflé mold with alternating layers of filling, heated in the oven, 
unmolded, and coated with sauce. Whatever system you decide upon, includ- 
ing rolled crépes, your dish may be prepared in advance and heated up when 
you are ready to serve. 

Dessert crépes, called crépes sucrées, and entrée crêpes, crêpes salées, have 
slightly different proportions, but their batters are blended and cooked in the 


CRÊPES 191 
same way. The following recipe is made with an electric blender, because it is 
so quick. If you do not have one, gradually blend the eggs into the flour, beat 
in the liquid by spoonfuls, then the butter, and strain the batter to get rid of 
any possible lumps. Crépe batter should be made at least 2 hours before it is to 
be used; this allows the flour particles to expand in the liquid and insures a 
tender, light, thin crépe. 


PATE A CREPES 
| Crépe Batter | 


For about 25 to 30 crêpes, 6 to 612 inches in diameter 


1 cup cold water Put the liquids, eggs, and salt into the blender jar. Add 

1 cup cold milk the flour, then the butter. Cover and blend at top 

4 eggs speed for 1 minute. If bits of flour adhere to sides of 

12 tsp salt ‘jar, dislodge with a rubber scraper and blend for 2 to 

1% cups flour (scooped and 3 seconds more. Cover and refrigerate for at least 2 
leveled, see page 17) hours. 

4 Tb melted butter 


A rubber scraper 


The batter should be a very light cream, just thick 
enough to coat a wooden spoon. If, after making your 
first crépe, it seems too heavy, beat in a bit of water, 
a spoonful at a time. Your cooked crépe should be 
about 146 inch thick. 





Method for Making Crépes 


The first crépe is a trial one to test out the consistency of your batter, the 
exact amount you need for the pan, and the heat. 


An iron skillet or a crêpe Rub the skillet with the rind or brush it lightly with 
pan with a 6⁄2- to 7-inch oil. Set over moderately high heat until the pan is ” 
bottom diameter just beginning to smoke. 

A piece of fat bacon or pork- 
rind; OR 2 to 3 Tb cook- 
ing oil and a pastry brush 


192 CHAPTER FOUR: ENTRÉES AND LUNCHEON DISHES 


Iron Crépe Pans 






Top—French Crépe Pan 
Left—American Skillet 


Right—Omelette Pan 


A ladle or measure to hold Immediately remove from heat and, holding handle 
3 to 4 Tb or % cup of pan in your right hand, pour with your left hand 
a scant 1⁄4 cup of batter into the middle of the pan. 
Quickly tilt the pan in all directions to run the batter 
all over the bottom of the pan in a thin film. (Pour 
any batter that does not adhere to the pan back into 
your bowl; judge the amount for your next crépe ac- 
cordingly.) This whole operation takes but 2 or 3 
seconds. 


Return the pan to heat for 60 to 80 seconds. Then jerk and toss pan sharply back and 
forth and up and down to loosen the crépe. Lift its edges with a spatula and if the 
under side is a nice light brown, the crépe is ready for turning. 





Turn the crépe by using 2 spatulas; or grasp the edges nearest you in your fingers and 
Sweep it up toward you and over again into the pan in a reverse circle; or toss it over 


by a flip of the pan. 
elt OU 
Brown lightly for about }; minute on the other side. This second side is rarely more 


than a spotty brown, and is always kept as the underneath or nonpublic aspect of the 
crépe. As they are done, slide the crépes onto a rack and let cool several minutes be- 


CREPES 193 


fore stacking on a plate. Grease the skillet again, heat to just smoking, and proceed 
with the rest of the crépes. Crépes may be kept warm by covering them with a dish 
and setting them over simmering water or in a slow-oven. Or they may be made 
several hours in advance and reheated when needed. (Crépes freeze perfectly.) 

As soon as you are used to the procedure, you can keep 2 pans going at once, and 
make 24 crépes in less than half an hour. 





* Gâteau de Crêpes à la Florentine 


[Mound of French Pancakes Filled with Cream Cheese, Spinach, and 
Mushrooms | 


An amusing entrée or main-course dish can be made by piling crépes, a 
filling between each, in a shallow baking dish. (It looks like a many-layered 
cake or cylindrical mound.) Then the whole mound is covered with a good 
sauce and heated in the oven. Instead of the spinach, cheese, and mushrooms 
suggested, use any type of filling you wish, even three or four different kinds 
rather than one or two. Like the cream fillings on page 201, they are all a com- 
bination of well-flavored sauce and a mince or purée of cooked fish, shellfish, 
veal, ham, chicken or chicken livers, to which are added cooked vegetables such 
as asparagus tips, eggplant, tomatoes, spinach, or mushrooms if you wish. Other 
sauce suggestions, depending on your filling, are tomato sauce, page 76, brown 
Madeira sauce, page 75, sauce soubise (béchamel with puréed onions), page 64. 
You may use one or more types of sauce for the fillings, and still another to top 
the mound of crépes. 

This type of dish may be made ready for the oven in the morning, and 
heated up at dinnertime. 

For 4 to 6 people 


Batter for 24 crêpes 6⁄2 Make the crépes and set them aside. 

inches in diameter, page 

IQI 

Sauce Mornay (béchamel with cheese), 3 cups 

5 Tb flour Cook the flour and butter slowly together in the sauce- 
4 Tb butter pan for 2 minutes without coloring. 
A 1'4-quart saucepan 
234 cups boiling milk Off heat, beat in the boiling milk and seasonings. 
14 tsp salt Boil, stirring, for 1 minute. 


78 tsp pepper 
Big pinch of nutmeg 


194 


1⁄4 cup whipping cream 
1 cup coarsely grated Swiss 
cheese 


The spinach filling 
1 Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 
2 Tb butter 
1% cups blanched chopped 
spinach, page 468 
14 tsp salt. 


CHAPTER FOUR: ENTREES AND LUNCHEON DISHES 





Reduce to the simmer and stir in the cream by table- 
spoons. Sauce should be thick enough to coat the 
spoon fairly heavily. Remove from heat and correct 
seasoning. Stir in all but two tablespoons of the cheese. 
Film top of sauce with milk to prevent a skin from 
forming. 


Cook the shallots or onions in butter for a moment 
in an enameled saucepan. Add spinach and salt, and 
stir over moderately high heat for 2 to 3 minutes to 
evaporate moisture. Stir in % to % cup of the cheese 
sauce. Cover and simmer slowly for 8 to 10 minutes, 
stirring occasionally. Correct seasoning and set aside. 


The cheese and mushroom filling 


1 cup cottage cheese or 8 
ounces cream cheese 
Salt and pepper 


1 egg 


14 lb. (1 cup) minced mush- 
rooms 

zı Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 

1 Tb butter 

2 Tb oil 


Forming the mound 
A round baking dish about 
9 inches in diameter and 
14 inches deep 

3 Tb grated cheese 

2 Tb butter 


Baking 


Mash the cheese in a mixing bow] with the seasonings. 
Beat in ! to 4 cup of the cheese sauce, and the egg. 


Sauté the mushrooms and shallots in butter and oil 


for 5 to 6 minutes in a skillet. Stir them into the 
cheese mixture, and correct seasoning. 


Butter the baking dish, and center a crépe in the bot- 
tom. Spread it with a layer of cheese and mushroom 
filling. Press a crépe on top and spread it with a layer 
of spinach filling. Continue with alternating layers of 
crépes and filling, ending with a crépe. Pour the re- 
maining cheese sauce over the top and sides of the 
mound. Sprinkle with the 3 tablespoons of cheese and 
dot with 3 or 4 pea-sized bits of butter. Set aside. 


About 25 to 30 minutes before serving time, place in upper third of a preheated 35a- 
degree oven to heat through thoroughly and brown the top lightly. To serve, cut in 


pie-shaped wedges. 


CREPES 


195 


ss 


VARIATIONS 


Timbale de Crépes 


[ Molded French Pancakes with Various Fillings | 


For 6 people 


A r¥-quart cylindrical 
mold, preferably a char- 
lotte, about 314 inches 
high and 6% inches in 
diameter 

10 cooked crépes 642 to 7 
inches in diameter and 12 
crépes 6 inches in diame- 
ter 

3 to 4 cups of cream fillings, 


pages 201 to 203, one or - 


several varieties 


2/2 cups of sauce, such as 
tomato, cheese, or what- 
ever will go with your 
fillings 


Butter the mold. Cut the 10 large crépes in half. Line 
the mold with them—their best sides against the 
mold, their pointed ends meeting at the bottom center 
of the mold, and the other ends folded down the 
outside of the mold. Fill the mold with alternating 
layers of stuffing and crépes. Fold the dangling ends 
of the halved crépes over the last layer of stuffing and 
top with a final crépe. 


Set mold in a pan of boiling water and bake in lower 


third of a preheated 350-degree oven for 30 to 40 
minutes, or until thoroughly heated. Unmold on a but- 
tered serving dish and cover with whatever sauce you 
have chosen. 


Crépes Farcies et Roulées 
[Stuffed and Rolled French Pancakes] 


Place a big spoonful of filling on the lower third of each crépe and roll 


the crépes into cylinders. 


Either sauté in butter, remove to a hot serving dish and sprinkle with 


parsley; 


Or arrange in a shallow baking dish, cover with sauce, sprinkle with 


cheese and brown slowly under a moderate broiler. 


The shellfish or chicken fillings on page 202 are especially good for this 


if you wish to be fairly elaborate. Both call for a good sauce velouté; in making 


it, use half the sauce to mix with an equal amount of shellfish or chicken for 


your filling. Thin out the rest with a bit of heavy cream, and use that for 


coating the crépes. 


196 CHAPTER FOUR: ENTRÉES AND LUNCHEON DISHES 





COCKTAIL APPETIZERS 
Hors d Oeuvres `` 


For those who enjoy making pastries, here are a few good hot hors 
d'oeuvres and one cold one. The series of canapés and tartlets starting on page 
199, and the chaussons on page 204, can be made larger, and served as a first 
course or luncheon dish. 


AMUSE-GUEULE AU ROQUEFORT 
[Roquefort Cheese Balls - Cold] 


For about 24 


Y% lb. Roquefort or blue Crush the cheese in a bowl with 4 tablespoons of the 


cheese butter and work it into a smooth paste. Beat in the 
4 to 6 Tb softened butter chives or onion tops, celery, seasonings, and cognac or 
1% Tb chives or minced Worcestershire. If mixture is very stiff, beat in more 

green onion tops butter by fractions. Check seasoning carefully. Roll 
1 Tb finely minced celery into balls about '4 inch in diameter. 


Pinch of cayenne pepper 

Salt if needed 

¥4 tsp pepper 

1 tsp cognac or a few drops 
of Worcestershire sauce 


14 cup fine, stale, white Toss bread crumbs and parsley in a plate. Roll the 


breadcrumbs cheese balls in the mixture so they are well covered. 
2 Tb very finely minced Chill. 
parsley 


Serve as they are or pierced with a toothpick. 


CHEESE BISCUITS 
Bouchées, Galettes, Baguettes 


Any of the following are more attractive when hot, but are quite good 
served cold. They may be baked, then frozen, and reheated for 5 minutes or so 
in a hot oven. 


HORS D'OEUVRES 197 


x GALETTES AU FROMAGE 
[Cheese Wafers] 


These featherweight wafers are often made of Swiss cheese, but you can 
use other cheese or a mixture of cheeses if you wish, and thus employ leftovers. 
The dough contains just enough flour to hold the galettes together while they 
bake, and 34 cup of flour is usually right for Swiss cheese. You will probably 
need more if you are using soft cheeses, and should always bake one as a test. 

For about 30 wafers 


12 lb. (about 2 pressed-down 
cups) grated Swiss cheese 
or a mixture of cheeses 

12 lb. softened butter 

2 cup all-purpose flour, 
more if needed 

l4 tsp pepper 

Pinch of cayenne pepper 

Salt to taste 


Lightly buttered baking 
sheets 

1 egg beaten with 1⁄2 tsp 
water in a small bowl 

A pastry brush 

14 cup grated Swiss cheese 

A cooling rack 


Preheat oven to 425 degrees. 


Knead all ingredients together in a bowl or on a 
board. The mixture will be sticky. Roll a 1-tablespoon 
bit into a ball in the palms of your hands, then 


. flatten it into a cake % inch thick. Bake 10 to 15 


minutes in hot oven to observe how it holds together; 
it should spread slightly, puff lightly, and brown. If 
it spreads out more than you wish, or is too fragile, 
knead in 4 cup more flour and make another test. 


When you are satisfied, form the rest of the dough 
into cakes and place on baking sheets. Paint the tops 
with beaten egg and top each with a pinch of grated 
cheese. Bake for 10 to 15 minutes until the galettes 
have puffed, and browned lightly. Cool them on a 
rack. 





Galettes au Roquefort 


[Roquefort Cheese Biscuits] 


The dough for these galettes may also serve as a pastry dough for tarts and 


turnovers. 


For about 30 biscuits 


1⁄4 Ib. Roquefort or blue 
cheese 


Mash the cheese in the bowl with a mixing fork. Beat 
in the butter, cream, and egg yolk. Then knead in 


198 


A 2-quart mixing bowl 

14 lb. softened butter 

2 Tb whipping cream 

1 egg yolk 

34 cup flour (scooped and 
leveled, see page 17) 


CHAPTER FOUR: ENTREES AND LUNCHEON DISHES 


the flour. Form into a ball, wrap in waxed paper, and 
chill until firm. Roll out 1⁄4 inch thick, cut into 14- 
inch rounds, brush with egg, and bake as in the pre- 
ceding recipe. 





Galettes au Camembert 


{Camembert Biscuits | 


This dough may substitute for the usual pastry dough for tarts and turn- 


overs. 


For about 50 biscuits 


6 to B ounces ripe Camem- 
bert, Brie, or Liederkranz 
cheese 

A 2-quart mixing bowl 

3 ounces (3% stick) softened 
butter 

2 eggs 

124 tsp salt 

Y tsp pepper 

Pinch of cayenne pepper 

2 cups sifted all-purpose 
flour 


Scrape off the crusts and mash the cheese in the bow! 


with a mixing fork. Blend in the butter, then beat in 
the eggs and seasoning. Work in the flour and knead 
everything together for a moment to make a smooth 
and fairly supple dough. Knead in a tablespoon or so 
more flour if dough seems too soft. Wrap in waxed 
paper and chill until firm. Roll out 1⁄4 inch thick, cut 
into 14-inch rounds, and brush with egg as in the 
preceding master recipe for cheese biscuits. Bake in 
upper third of a preheated 350-degree oven for about 
15 minutes, or until lightly browned. 


BOUCHEES PARMENTIER AU FROMAGE 


[Potato Cheese Sticks] 


Mashed potato gives these little cheese mouthfuls a nice, tender quality. 


For about 60 pieces 


12 lb. baking potatoes (2 
medium potatoes) 


Stir the potatoes over moderate heat in a heavy-bot- 


Peel and quarter the potatoes. Boil in salted water 


until tender. Drain, and put through a ricer. You 
should have 1 cup. 


tomed saucepan for 2 to 3 minutes until they form 


k “ 


> 
HORS D OEUVRES 199 


a light film on the bottom of the pan, indicating most 
of their moisture has been evaporated. 


% cup flour (scooped and Beat the flour into the potatoes, then the butter by 
leveled, see page 17) fractions, then the egg, cheese, and seasonings. Taste 
4 ounces (1 stick) softened for seasoning. Preheat oven to 425 degrees. 
butter 


1 egg | 

4 ounces (1 cup) grated 
Swiss cheese 

V8 tsp white pepper 

Pinch of nutmeg 

Pinch of cayenne pepper 

Salt as needed 


2 lightly buttered baking With a fluted pastry tube 14 inch in diameter, squeeze 
sheets the mixture into 24-inch lengths spaced 14 inch apart 
onto the baking sheets. 


© Bake both sheets at a time in preheated oven for about 
15 minutes, or until sticks are lightly browned. 


CANAPES, BREAD CASES, AND 
TARTLET SHELLS 


Although Melba toast and crackers make good foundations for hot appe- 
tizers, the following are more elegant. They may be used interchangeably, 
all of them may be prepared ahead, and they may also be filled and browned, 
then reheated. When bread is specified, use only a homemade type of white 
bread with body, not the soft squashy type. French recipes call for pain de mie. 


Canapés — Crotitons 
[Plain or Sautéed Bread Rounds] 


Plain, sliced, white bread works perfectly well for canapés when cut into 
triangles or rounds, spread with a filling, then set in a preheated 425-degree 
oven until the bread is toasted on the bottom and the filling has puffed and 
browned on top. But if you wish to be more elaborate, proceed as follows: 

Slice the bread 1⁄4 inch thick, and cut it into rounds 1! to 2 inches in 
diameter with a fluted cutter. Heat % inch of clarified butter (page 15) in a 


200 CHAPTER FOUR: ENTRÉES AND LUNCHEON DISHES 


skillet and sauté the rounds on each side until very lightly browned, adding 
more butter as necessary. (These are called croéitons when they are triangular 
and garnish an entrée.) 

Heap the filling (recipes are on following pages) upon each canapé in a 
4 -inch dome. Top with a pinch of grated cheese, and a drop of melted butter. 
Arrange on a baking sheet and slip for a moment under a hot broiler to brown 
the tops lightly. If prepared in advance, reheat in a 350-degree oven for several 
minutes. 


Crotites 
[Toasted Bread Cases] 


Slice off the crust. Cut the bread into 1-inch slices, and the slices either 
into 1-inch cubes or, with a cutter, into rounds. Cut out a well in the center of 
each. Tamp down the bread on the sides and bottom of the well with your 
finger to make an open-topped case about 4 inch thick. Paint the tops and 
sides with melted butter. Place on a baking sheet and brown lightly for 5 
minutes in the upper third of a preheated 450-degree oven. 

Place filling (following pages) in the hollow centers. Top with a pinch of 
grated cheese and a drop of melted butter. Brown top of filling delicately under 
a hot broiler for a moment. Reheat, if they have been prepared in advance, in a 
350-degree oven for several minutes. 


Tartelettes 
[Little Pastry Shells] 


Following the general procedure for pastry dough, and for pastry shells, 
pages 139 to 146, roll the dough a bit less than % inch thick. Line buttered 
pastry molds ! inch deep and 2 to 24 inches in diameter, or shallow muffin 
tins, with the dough. Flute the rims with the back of a knife. Prick the bottom 
of the dough with a fork. Fill each mold or cup with a round of buttered brown 
paper and a small handful of dried beans; or set another mold on the pastry. 
Either will keep the bottom from puffing up and the sides from collapsing. 
Bake in a preheated 400-degree oven for 7 to 8 minutes, or until pastry will 
hold its shape. Remove paper and beans or empty molds. Prick bottom of shells 
again and return to oven for 2 to 3 minutes more, or until shells are just begin- 


ning to color and to shrink from sides of molds. Remove shells and cool on a ~ 
rack. 


HORS D'OEUVRES 


201 


Place a filling (following) in center. Top with a pinch of cheese and a 
drop of melted butter. Arrange on a baking sheet and set in a 450-degree oven 
for 5 minutes or so, until filling has browned on top. If done ahead, reheat 
in a 350-degree oven for several minutes. 


SPREADS AND FILLINGS 


Farces 


Use these multipurpose cream fillings for the sautéed bread rounds, bread 
cases or tartelettes. They may also garnish the cream puffs on page 177, the pas- 
try turnovers on page 204, the croquettes on page 203, and the crépes on pages 


190 to 195. 


* FONDUE AU GRUYERE 
[Cream Filling with Swiss Cheese | 


For about 2 cups 


2/2 Tb butter 

3 Tb flour 

A 2-quart saucepan 

A wire whip 

1% cups boiling milk or 
boiling light cream 

12 tsp salt 

78 tsp pepper 

Pinch of nutmeg 

Pinch of cayenne pepper 


1 egg yolk 

4 ounces (1 cup) coarsely 
grated Swiss, or Swiss and 
Parmesan, cheese 


2 Tb butter 


Cook the butter and flour slowly together in the 


saucepan for 2 minutes without coloring. Off heat, 
beat in the boiling milk or cream, then the seasonings. 
Boil, stirring, for 1 minute. Sauce should be very 
thick. Taste for seasoning. 


Remove sauce from heat. Place egg yolk in center of 
sauce and immediately beat it vigorously in with the 
wire whip. Beat for a moment to cool slightly, then 
beat in the cheese, and finally the butter. Taste care- 
fully for seasoning. If not used immediately, dot top 
of sauce with butter to prevent a skin from forming. 





202 CHAPTER FOUR: ENTREES AND LUNCHEON DISHES 
VARIATIONS 

Garlic and Wine Flavoring 
2 Tb butter Using a small enameled saucepan, cook the shallots 


1% Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 

1 small clove mashed garlic 

Y cup dry white vermouth 


Ham 


2 cup minced ham or Cana- 
dian bacon 
12 Tb butter 


or onions, and garlic slowly in butter for a moment. 
Add wine, raise heat, and boil down rapidly until 
wine is reduced to ! cup. Substitute this for 14 cup 
of milk in the master recipe. 


Sauté the ham for a moment in butter. Substitute it 


for half of the cheese in the master recipe. 





Mushrooms or Chicken Livers 


14 lb. diced mushrooms or 
chicken livers 

t Tb butter 

Salt and pepper 


Sauté the mushrooms or chicken livers in the butter. 


Season to taste, and substitute for half of the cheese 
in the master recipe. 





x FONDUE DE CRUST ACES 
[Cream Filling with Shellfish or Clams] 


For about 2 cups 


1% Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 

2 Tb butter 

174 cups diced or flaked, 
cooked or canned shell- 
fish; or canned minced 
clams 

Ys cup dry white wine or 
dry white vermouth; or 


Using a 2-quart saucepan or a small enameled skillet, 
cook the shallots or onions in the butter for a moment 
over low heat. Stir in the shellfish or clams and cook 
slowly for 2 minutes over low heat. Add the wine. 
Cover and simmer for 1 minute. Uncover, raise heat, 
and boil rapidly until liquid has almost evaporated. 
Season to taste and stir in optional herbs. 


HORS D'OEUVRES 


3 to 4 Tb Madeira or 
sherry 
Salt and pepper to taste 
Optional: 1 Tb minced fresh 
herbs such as tarragon or 
chervil; or 1⁄2 tsp dried 
tarragon or oregano 


2 Tb butter 

2/2 Tb flour 

x cup boiling liquid (milk, 
plus—if you have it—con- 
centrated fish stock ar 
mushroom juice, or clam 
juice) 

Ya tsp pepper 

Salt to taste 


1 egg yolk 
14 cup whipping cream 


Y% cup grated Swiss cheese 


VARIATION 


Fondue de Volaille 


203 


In a separate 2-quart saucepan, cook the butter and 


flour slowly together for 2 minutes without coloring. 
Off heat, beat in the boiling liquid, pepper, and salt 
to taste. Boil, stirring, for 1 minute. 


Beat egg yolk and cream in a bowl. Remove sauce 
. from heat and beat it into the bowl by tablespoons. 


Return to saucepan and boil, stirring, for 1 minute. 
Sauce should be very thick. Correct seasoning. 


Fold the previously prepared shellfish, then the cheese 


into the sauce, and check seasoning again. If not used 
immediately, dot top of sauce with butter to prevent a 
skin from forming. 


[Cream Filling with Chicken or Turkey] 


Using exactly the same method and proportions as for the preceding 


fondue de crustacés, substitute 1 cup of diced, cooked chicken, turkey, duck, 


or game for the shellfish or clams. 


CROQUETTES 


Crèmes Frites, Fondues, Cromesquis 


Any of the preceding fondues, starting on page 201, may be chilled, cut 


into squares or balls, rolled in egg and bread crumbs, then browned in deep 


204 


CHAPTER FOUR: ENTRÉES AND LUNCHEON DISHES 


fat. But as you need a far thicker sauce, here is a different method. 
For 24 pieces 114 inches square and 12 inch thick 


Y% cup flour (measure by 
scooping into cup; level 
off with knife’) 

12 cups milk 

2 egg yolks 

Salt, pepper, and nutmeg 

2 Tb butter 

1 cup any of the preceding 
flavorings 

1 Tb melted butter 


1 cup flour 

3 pie plates 

1 egg and 2 egg whites 
beaten with 1 Tb oil, x 
tsp water, salt and pepper 

2 cups fine, dry, white 
bread crumbs 

Frying oil and deep-fat fry- 
ing equipment 


Place flour in a heavy saucepan, gradually blend in 
milk with a wire whip. Stir over moderate heat until 
mixture begins to lump. Remove from heat and vigor- 
ously blend in egg yolks. When smooth, beat over 
heat 2 minutes to thicken sauce. Remove from heat; 
beat in seasonings and butter. When sauce is slightly 
cool, add flavoring. Spread !Z inch thick in a lightly 
buttered platter. Film surface with melted butter; 
cover and chill several hours. 


Turn the flour in one plate, beaten egg in second, and 
crumbs in third. Scoop up 114 tablespoons chilled 
mixture with a spatula; drop into flour. Dredge 
lightly and shape into a square with fingers. Drop 
into egg and spoon it over entire surface. Drain on 
a fork and drop into crumbs. Pat crumbs evenly over 
entire surface. (*) Croquettes may be crumbed a day 
in advance; cover and refrigerate. 


Brown 4 to 5 croquettes at a time for 2 to 3 minutes in frying oil at 375 degrees. 
‘Drain on crumpled paper towels. Reheat if necessary for 2 to 3 minutes only in a 


preheated 450-degree oven. 


— 


TURNOVERS 


Chaussons 


PETITS CHAUSSONS AU ROQUEFORT 
[Pastry Turnuvers with Roquefort Cheese] 


These nice little mouthfuls are made of pastry dough rolled out and cut” 
into squares, ovals, or circles. In the center a small lump of filling is placed. 


HORS D'OEUVRES 205 


The edges of the pastry are moistened with beaten egg, then either another 
piece of pastry is placed on top, or the original pastry is folded over upon itself 
to enclose the filling. They are then baked in a hot oven until they puff and 
brown. In making them, avoid putting in so much filling that the pastry cannot 
be sealed, and be suré to seal carefully so the turnovers do not burst while bak- 
ing. A ravioli stamp—a heavy metal ring about 2 inches in diameter with 
serrated teeth—will seal 2 ‘rounds of pastry most efficiently together. 

Turnovers may enclose a variety of stuffings other than Roquefort, such 
as the cream fillings on pages 201 to 203, or any of the liver, sausage, or veal 
mixtures in the pété section, pages 565 to 569, or the ground meat mixtures in 
the Beef, Lamb, or Veal sections. You can also use little pork sausages or store- 
bought sausage meat. Chaussons may be made in any size or shape, from about 
2}, inches for appetizers to 12 inches for an entrée. 

For about 40 pieces 


Mash the cheese in the bowl with a mixing fork. Beat 
in the butter, then the egg yolks, kirsch or cognac, 
pepper, and chives or onion tops. 


1% Ib. Roquefort or blue 
cheese 

A 3-quart mixing bowl 

14 lb. (x stick) softened but- 
ter 

2 egg yolks 

1 to 2 Tb kirsch or cognac 

114 tsp pepper 

2 Tb minced chives or 
minced green onion tops 


Beat in the cream by tablespoons but do not let the 
mixture thin out too much. It should remain a fairly 
thick paste. Correct seasoning. 


2 to 6 Tb whipping cream 


Chilled pastry dough made 
from 4 cups of flour, page 


139 


1 egg beaten in a bowl with 
12 tsp water 

A pastry brush 

Lightly buttered baking 
sheets 


Roll out the dough into a rectangle % inch thick. 


With a ravioli wheel or a knife, cut the dough into 
24-inch squares. 


Preheat oven to 425 degrees. 


Place 1 teaspoon of filling in the center of each square. 


One by one, paint a %4-inch border of beaten egg 
around the edges of the pastry. Fold the pastry over on 
itself into a triangle. Press the edges together firmly 
with your fingers. Press them again making a design 
with the tines of a fork. Place on a buttered baking 


206 CHAPTER FOUR: ENTRÉES AND LUNCHEON DISHES 


sheet and continue with the rest of the turnovers. Paint 
the tops with beaten egg. Make shallow crosshatch 
lines with the point of a knife, and poke a 14-inch 
hole through the center of each pastry top so cooking 
steam can escape. z 


Bake in upper third of preheated oven for about 15 
minutes, or until puffed and lightly browned. 


Turnovers may be baked, then reheated. Baked turn- 
overs may also be frozen, then set in a 425-degree 
oven for 5 minutes or so to thaw and heat through. 


nA 


CHAPTER FIVE 


FISH 


Poisson 


fe FRENCH are magnificent with fish. Not only is fresh fish abundant 
all year round, but the art of its cooking and saucing is accomplished with 
great taste and skill. 

This chapter includes two fine recipes for scallops, one for tuna or sword- 
fish, three for lobster, and a group for mussels. But the main emphasis is on 
the important and typically French method of poaching filets of fish in white 
wine and serving them in a wine sauce, starting with the simplest type of sauce 
and ending with several of the most famous of la grande cuisine. These last, 
as you will observe, are fish veloutés (flour and butter roux simmered with the 
fish cooking liquid), which are then enriched with cream and egg yolks. They 
are all the same basic sauce described in detail on page 60 in the Sauce chapter. 
Under numerous disguises and with various flavorings, this sauce appears 
throughout almost every phase of French cookery. 


A NOTE ON BUYING FISH 


Fish must be fresh smelling and fresh tasting. If it is whole, its eyes are 
bright and full, not filmed, opaque, and flat. Its gills are bright red, its flesh 
firm to the touch, its skin fresh and glistening. 

Frozen fish should be bought from a dealer who has the proper facilities 
to ship and store it at a constant temperature of zero degrees. It should be solidly 
frozen. A block of frozen juices at the bottom of the package is proof that it has 
been thawed and refrozen. Before cooking, defrost it in the refrigerator, or 


under cold running water. 


208 CHAPTER FIVE: FISH 


SERVING SUGGESTIONS 


A beautifully sauced fish can well be considered as a separate course and 
needs nothing but French bread and a good wine to go with it. If it is a main 
course, include risotto or steamed rice for shellfish, boiled potatoes for other 
fish. A salad or vegetable should come afterward, so as not to disturb the 
harmony of the fish, the sauce, and the wine. , 





FISH FILETS IN WHITE WINE SAUCE 


THE FISH FILETS 


Most of the famous French dishes involving filet of sole center around 
fish poached in white wine and coated with a lovely, creamy sauce made from 
the poaching liquid. Although many types of American flat fish and fish 
filets are called sole, they are usually flounder because the true sole is not a 
native American fish. European sole is flown over to America, and can be 
bought, but it is rarely seen in the usual American market. The sole’s ease of 
skinning and filleting, and its close-grained yet delicate flesh make it ideal for 
poaching. The best substitutes for European sole are winter flounder or gray 
sole, Pacific petrale sole or brill. Each of these is a common sole filet in Amer- 
ica, depending on where you live. Other worthy substitutes of a different nature 
are whiting or silver hake, dab, tilefish, fresh-water trout, and (if the filets are 
too thick, slice these horizontally to make them about % inch thick) halibut, 
cod, pollack, striped bass, monkfish. Any of the lean white fish, in other words, 
may be used in these recipes in place of sole; if they flake during poaching, 
plan to sauce and serve them in their baking dish. 


* FILETS DE POISSON POCHES AU VIN BLANC 
[Fish Filets Poached in White Wine] 


For 6 people 


Preheat oven to 350 degrees. 


WHITE WINE SAUCES 


A buttered, 10- to 12-inch, 
fireproof baking and serv- 
ing dish, 11% to 2 inches 
deep 

2 Tb finely minced shallots 
or green onions 


212 lbs. skinless and bone- 


less sole or flounder filets 
cut into serving pieces 

Salt and pepper 

1% Tb butter cut into bits 

1% to 1% cups cold, white- 
wine fish stock made from 
heads, bones, and trim- 
mings, page 114 

OR 4 cup dry white wine 
or 73 cup dry white ver- 
mouth plus !4 cup bottled 
clam juice, and water 

OR 114 cups wine and water 
mixed 


Buttered brown paper or 
waxed paper (do not use 
aluminum foil—it will 
discolor the wine) 


An enameled saucepan 


209 


Sprinkle half the shallots or onions in the bottom of 
the dish. Season the filets lightly with salt and pepper 
and arrange them in one slightly overlapping layer in 
the dish. If filets are thin, they may be folded in half 
so they make triangles. Sprinkle the filets with the 
remaining shallots or onions, and dot with butter. 
Pour in the cold liquid and enough water so fish is 
barely covered. 


Bring almost to the simmer on top of the stove. Lay 
the buttered paper over the fish. Then place dish in 
bottom third of preheated oven. Maintain liquid al- 
most at the simmer for 8 to 12 minutes depending on 
the thickness of the filets. The fish is done when a 
fork pierces the flesh easily. Do not overcook; the fish 
should not be dry and flaky. 





Place a cover over the dish and drain out all the cook- 
ing liquid into an enameled saucepan. 

(*) The fish is now poached and ready for saucing. 
It may be covered and kept warm for a few minutes 
over hot, but not simmering, water. Or set it aside, 
covered with its piece of paper, and reheat later for a 
few minutes over simmering water. Be very sure the 
fish does not overcook as it reheats. Before saucing the 
fish, drain off any liquid which may have accumulated 


in the dish. 


210 


CHAPTER FIVE: FISH 





x Filets de Poisson Bercy aux Champignons 
[Fish Filets Poached in White Wine with Mushrooms] 


Bercy is the simplest of the white-wine fish sauces. The poaching liquid 
is thickened with beurre manié—a flour and butter paste—then enriched with 
cream. This combination of fish, mushrooms,‘and cream sauce is an informal 


version of sole bonne femme. Serve with it a white Burgundy, Graves, or 


Traminer. 


For 6 people 


34 lb. or 3% cups sliced 
fresh mushrooms 

2 Tb butter 

An enameled skillet 

V8 tsp salt 

Pinch of pepper 


2⁄2 lbs. filets of sole or 
flounder and the ingredi- 
ents for poaching them in 
white wine (see preceding 
recipe) 

A 2-quart enameled or stain- 
less steel saucepan 


24% Tb flour blended to a 
paste with 3 Tb softened 
butter 

34 to 1 cup whipping cream 

Salt and pepper 

Lemon juice 


14 cup grated Swiss cheese 
1 Tb butter cut into bits 


Toss, the mushrooms in hot butter over moderately 


high heat for a minute or two without browning. 
Season with salt and pepper, and set aside. 


Arrange the seasoned filets in a buttered baking dish 
as described in the master recipe. Spread the mush- 
rooms over them. Pour in the liquids, and poach the 
fish. Then drain the poaching liquid into the sauce- 
pan. Preheat broiler. 


Rapidly boil down the poaching liquid until it has 


reduced to 1 cup. 


Off heat, beat the flour and butter paste into the hot 
liquid, then ¥% cup of the cream. Bring to the boil. 
Thin out the sauce with additional tablespoons of 
cream until it coats the spoon nicely. Season to taste 
with salt, pepper, and drops of lemon juice. 


Spoon the sauce over the fish. Sprinkle on the cheese, 
and dot with butter. Place dish 6 to 7 inches from a 
hot broiler for 2 to 3 minutes to reheat fish and brown 
top of sauce lightly. Serve as soon as possible. + 
(*) Dish may be prepared ahead and reheated as fol- 
lows: After sprinkling on the cheese and butter, set 


WHITE WINE SAUCES 2P 


aside. Before serving, reheat just to the simmer on top 
of the stove, then run for a minute or two under a hot 
broiler to brown the top.of the sauce. 





VARIATION 
Filets de Poisson à la Bretonne 
[Fish Filets Poached in White Wine and a Julienne of Vegetables] 


This is the same recipe, but with a julienne of carrots, onions, celery, 
and mushrooms cooked in butter, then spread over the fish. It makes a pretty 
dish with a delicious flavor. 


Ingredients for the preced- Cut the vegetables into julienne matchsticks 114 
ing recipe, but use only 1⁄4 inches long and '% inch across. Keep the mushrooms 
Ib. of mushrooms, and the separate. Cook the other vegetables slowly in butter 
following vegetables: for about 20 minutes in a covered saucepan, until they 

I carrot are tender but not browned. Then add the mushrooms 

2 leeks, white part only; or and cook for 2 minutes. Season with salt and pepper. 
2 yellow onions 

2 tender celery stalks 


Spread the vegetables over the seasoned fish filets, 
cover with the liquids, and poach the fish. Make the 
sauce as in the preceding recipe. 





x Filets de Poisson Gratinés, a la Parisienne 
[Fish Filets Poached in White Wine; Cream and Egg Yolk Sauce] 


In the following recipe, the fish poaching liquid is cooked with a flour 
and butter roux to make a fish velouté. The velouté is then combined with 
cream and egg yolks to produce a delicious, velvety sauce called a parisienne. 
Although it uses almost the same elements as the sauce Bercy, because of its 
cooked roux and its egg yolks, sauce parisienne is far more subtle in taste and 
texture. It is the basis for all the great fish sauces described later. When the 
sauce is to be used for a gratin, as in this recipe, the whole dish may be prepared 
ahead of time, and reheated later. Before the fish is sauced, it may be surrounded 
with various cooked shellfish as suggested at the end of the recipe. Serve with 
this a chilled white Burgundy, or an excellent white Graves. 


For 6 people 


212 


232 lbs. sole or flounder fi- 
lets poached in white 
wine, page 208 


CHAPTER FIVE: FISH 


Poach the fish in white wine as described in the master 


recipe. Drain the poaching liquid into an enameled 
saucepan and rapidly boil it down until it has reduced 
to I cup. 


Sauce Parisienne (2, cups) 


A 2-quart, heavy-bottomed, 
enameled or stainless steel 
saucepan 

3 Tb butter 

4 Tb flour 

A wooden spatula or spoon 

The boiling fish-poaching 
liquid 

34 cup milk 

A wire whip 


2 egg yolks 

14 cup whipping cream 
A 2-quart mixing bowl 
A wire whip 

A wooden spoon 
More cream as needed 
Salt and white pepper 
Lemon juice 


2 Tb grated Swiss cheese, to 
help brown top of sauce 
t Tb butter cut into bits 


Melt the butter, blend in the flour, and cook slowly, 
stirring, until they foam and froth together for 2 
minutes without coloring. Off heat, beat in the boiling 
liquid, then the milk. Boil, stirring, for 1 minute. 
Sauce will be very thick. 


Preheat broiler. 


Blend the yolks and cream in the mixing bowl. Beat 
in driblets of hot sauce until a cup has been added. 
Beat in the rest of the hot sauce in a thin stream. 
Return the sauce to the pan. Set over moderately high 
heat and stir with wooden spoon, reaching all over 
the bottom of the pan, until the sauce comes to the 
boil. Boil and stir for 1 minute. Thin out with addi- 
tional spoonfuls of cream until the sauce coats the 
spoon nicely. Season carefully to taste with salt, pep- 
per, and drops of lemon juice. Strain. 


Spoon the sauce over the fish. Sprinkle with cheese, 
and dot with butter. 


(*) If not to be served immediately, set aside. 


Just before serving, reheat slowly almost to simmer 


on top of the stove. Run under hot broiler to brown 
the top of the sauce. 





? 


SHELLFISH GARNITURES 


Before saucing the fish in the preceding or following recipes, you may 
surround it with one or various types of cooked shellfish meat. Their cooking 


WHITE WINE SAUCES 213 


juices are added to reduce with the liquid in which your fish filets were 
poached, giving it even more character. 

The following brief directions include the cooking of the raw shellfish, 
and then the warming of the meat in butter and seasonings to give it additional 
flavor. If you are using previously cooked or canned meat, it will need only 
the final warming in butter. 


Lobster 


Steam the lobster in wine and aromatic flavorings as described at the 
beginning of the lobster Thermidor recipe on page 221. When the lobster is 
cool, remove the meat and dice or slice it. Sauté the meat for 2 to 3 minutes in 
2 tablespoons of hot butter, 1 tablespoon of minced shallots or green onions, 
and salt and pepper. Stir in 3 tablespoons of dry white wine or dry white ver- 
mouth and boil for 1 minute until the liquid has almost completely evaporated. 
The lobster is now ready to be used. 


Shrimp 
Follow the preceding directions for lobster, but simmer the whole, un- 


peeled shrimp for 5 minutes only. Allow them to cool in the cooking liquid. 
Then peel them, and warm them in butter, seasonings, and wine. 


Ecrevisses 


These fresh-water shellfish are also called crayfish or crawfish, depending 
on what part of the country you come from. They look exactly like baby lobsters 
but are only 4 to 5 inches long. Prepare them like the shrimps in the preceding 
directions. Only the tail meat is used as a garnish. The chests and the rest of the 
shells may be ground up to make a shellfish butter, page 104. 


Shelled Fresh Oysters 


Poach the oysters at just below the simmer for 3 or 4 minutes in their 
natural juices until they swell. Drain them, and they are ready to use. 


Mussels 


Scrub and soak 1 quart of fresh mussels as directed on page 226. Then 
place them in a covered enameled or stainless steel saucepan with 1 cup of dry 
white wine or 4 cup of dry white vermouth, 3 tablespoons of minced shallot 
or green onion, 3 parsley sprigs, and a pinch of pepper. Boil rapidly for about 


214 CHAPTER FIVE: FISH 


5 minutes, tossing several times, until the shells swing open. Remove the mussels 
from their shells, and they are ready to use. 





SOME CLASSIC COMBINATIONS 


The same cream and egg-yolk fish sauce, described in the recipe for filets 
de poisson gratinés à la parisienne on page 211 becomes even more rich and 
velvety if a fairly large quantity of butter is beaten into it just before serving. 
The more you beat in, the more delicious the sauce becomes. But as in all 
heavily buttered sauces, it cannot be kept warm once buttered or the butter will 
liquefy and either thin out the sauce, or rise up and float on top. Here in outline 
are some traditional combinations of poached fish filets and various shellfish 
garnitures to give you an idea of what you can do. You can, of course, make up 
your own selection. In each case, in the following recipes, the sauce takes on the 
name of the dish. Serve your finest white Burgundy with any of these, and they 
should be considered a separate course, accompanied only by hot French bread. 


x SOLE À LA DIEPPOISE 
[Fish Filets with Mussels and Shrimp] 


This recipe is the model for the variations to follow. 
For 6 people 


Poaching the fish 


212 lbs. sole or flounder fi- Arrange the poached fish filets on a lightly buttered 
lets poached in white serving platter and surround them with the mussels 
wine, page 208 and shrimp. Just before serving, cover the platter and 

1 quart fresh mussels reheat the fish for a few minutes over simmering 
steamed in white wine, water. Drain off any accumulated liquid before 


page 213 napping the fish with the following sauce: 
V2 Ib. shelled shrimp 


warmed in butter and 
seasonings, page 213 


For 2}, cups of sauce 


A 2/-quart enameled sauce- Following the technique for sauce parisienne on page: 
pan 212, cook the flour and butter slowly together until 
3 Tb butter they foam and froth for 2 minutes. Off heat, beat in 


WHITE WINE SAUCES 


4 Tb flour 

The fish-poaching and mus- 
sel-steaming liquids com- 
bined and boiled down to 
1 cup i 

34 cup milk 

2 egg yolks and % cup 
whipping cream blended 
in a 2-quart mixing bowl 

Salt and pepper 

Drops of lemon juice 


4 to 16 Tb softened butter 
(6 to 8 Tb is usual) 


Final assembly 


6 whole cooked shrimp in 
their shells 

6 to 12 thin slices of canned 
truffles 


VARIATIONS 


215 


the hot fish cooking liquid, then the milk. Boil 1 
minute. Beat the hot sauce by droplets into the yolks 
and cream. Return mixture to saucepan and boil, 


. stirring, for 1 minute. Thin out with more cream if 


necessary, and correct seasoning. Strain. Film top of 
sauce with a tablespoon of melted butter if not to be 


. served immediately. 


Just before serving the fish, bring the sauce to the 


simmer. Then remove it from heat and beat in the 
butter 1 tablespoon at a time. 


Immediately spoon the sauce over the hot fish and 
shellfish. Decorate with the shrimp and truffles and 
serve. 


The following are all constructed in exactly the same manner as the 
preceding sole à la dieppoise. Directions for poaching the fish are on page 208; 
for the shellfish garnitures, on page 212. 


Sole ala Normande 


[Fish Filets with Shellfish and Mushrooms | 


Follow the preceding recipe, but to the garniture add oysters, mushrooms, 


and écrevisses, if available. Decorate the sauced fish with whole shrimps or 


écrevisses, truffle slices, and crodtons (triangles of white bread sautéed in 


butter), page 199. 


Sole Walewska 


[Fish Filets with Shellfish and Truffles] 


Same as the sole à la dieppoise, but the filets are garnished with écrevisses 


or shrimp, and lobster meat, and instead of beating plain butter into the sauce, 


216 CHAPTER FIVE: FISH 


use the shellfish butter on page 104. Decorate the sauced fish with truffle slices, 
and cooked lobster claws or whole shrimp. 


Sole dla Nantua 


[Fish Filets with Ecrevisses] 


mal 
Same as the sole à la dieppoise, but the fish is garnished with écrevisses, 
and shellfish butter, page 104, rather than plain butter is beaten into the sauce. 


Sole Bonne Femme 


[Fish Filets with Mushrooms] 


Poach the fish filets in white wine and sliced mushrooms as for the sole 
Bercy on page 210. Make the sauce following the recipe for the sole à la diep- 
poise. Garnish the sauced fish with 6 fluted mushroom caps, page 510, which 
have been stewed in butter and lemon juice, page 511. 


Filets de Sole Farcis 
[Stuffed Fish Filets] 


Make 1 cup of the fish quenelle mixture on page 185. Mix into it 4 cup of 
finely diced mushroom duxelles, page 515, and 2 to 3 tablespoons additional 
whipping cream. Place a spoonful in the center of each seasoned, raw filet, 
and fold or roll the files to enclose the filling. Tie with white string. Poach, 
garnish, and sauce the filets following any of the preceding suggestions. 


COQUILLES ST. JACQUES A LA PARISIENNE 
[Scallops and Mushrooms in White Wine Sauce] 


Exactly the same sauce parisienne as that for the poached fish filezs in 
the preceding recipes is delicious with scallops gratinéed in their shells. This 
dish may be prepared ahead, and gratinéed just before serving. A fine, chilled 
white Burgundy or a very good white Graves would go well with it. Scallops 
are usually served as a first course, or as a light luncheon dish. 


For 6 scallop shells 


SCALLOPS 


Cooking the scallops 


1 cup dry white wine or 34 
cup dry white vermouth 

2 tsp salt 

Pinch of pepper 

12 bay leaf 

2 Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 

A 2-quart enameled or stain- 
less steel saucepan 


1 lb. washed scallops 
Y, Ib. sliced fresh mush- 
rooms 


The sauce 


A 2-quart enameled or stain- 
less steel saucepan 

3 Tb butter 

4 Tb flour 

34 cup milk 

2 egg yolks 

Y% cup whipping cream, 
more if needed 

Salt and pepper 


Drops of lemon juice 


Final assembly 


6 scallop shells or pyrex or 
porcelain shells of ¥% cup 
capacity 


2 Tb butter 
6 Tb grated Swiss cheese 


217 


Simmer the wine and flavorings for 5 minutes. 


Add the scallops and mushrooms to the wine, and 


pour in enough water barely to cover ingredients. 
Bring to the simmer. Cover, and simmer slowly for 
5 minutes. Remove scallops and mushrooms with a 
slotted spoon, and set aside in a bowl, 


Rapidly boil down the cooking liquid until it has re- 
duced to 1 cup. 


Following the directions in sauce parisienne, page 212, 
cook the butter and flour slowly together for 2 
minutes. Off heat, blend in the boiling cooking liquid, 
then the milk. Boil ı minute. Blend the egg yolks and 
cream in a bowl, then beat the hot sauce into them by 
driblets. Return the sauce to the pan and boil, stirring, 
for ı minute. Thin out with more cream if necessary. 
Season to taste with salt, pepper, and lemon juice. 
Strain. 


Cut the scallops into crosswise pieces about ¥% inch 


thick. 


Blend two thirds of the sauce with the scallops and 
mushrooms. Butter the shells. Spoon the scallops and 
mushrooms into them, and cover with the rest of the 


218 


1⁄2 Tb butter cut into 6 
pieces 


CHAPTER FIVE: FISH 


sauce. Sprinkle with cheese and dot with butter. Ar- 
range the shells on a broiling pan. 
(*) Set aside or refrigerate until ready to gratiné. 


Fifteen minutes before serving, set the scallops 8 to 9 


inches under a moderately hot broiler to heat through 
gradually, and to brown the top of the sauce. Serve as 
soon as possible. ` 





TWO RECIPES FROM PROVENCE 


COQUILLES ST. JACQUES À LA PROVENÇALE 
[Scallops Gratinéed with Wine, Garlic, and Herbs] 


This good recipe may be prepared in advance and gratinéed just before 
serving. The following proportions are sufficient for a first course. Double 
them for a main course. Serve a chilled rosé, or a dry white wine such as côtes 


de Provence. 


For 6 scallop shells 


13 cup minced yellow on- 
ions 

1 Tb butter 

1/2 Tb minced shallot or 
green onions 

1 clove minced garlic 


1¥4 lbs. washed scallops 
Salt and pepper 
1 cup sifted flour in a dish 


2 Tb butter 
1 Tb olive oil 
A 10-inch enameled skillet 


24 cup dry white wine, or 4 
cup dry white vermouth 
and 3 Tb water 

1% bay leaf 

W% tsp thyme 


Cook the onions slowly in butter in a small saucepan 


for 5 minutes or so, until tender and translucent but 
not browned. Stir in the shallots or onions, and garlic, 
and cook slowly for 1 minute more. Set aside. 


Dry the scallops and cut into slices 14 inch thick. Just 


before cooking, sprinkle with salt and pepper, roll in 
flour, and shake off excess flour. 


Sauté the scallops quickly in very hot butter and oil 


for 2 minutes to brown them lightly. 


Pour the wine, or the vermouth and water, into the 


skillet with the scallops. Add the herbs and the cooked 
onion mixture. Cover the skillet and simmer for 5 
minutes. Then uncover, and if necessary boil down 
the sauce rapidly for a minute until it is lightly 
thickened. Correct seasoning, and discard bay leaf. 


TUNA AND SWORDFISH 


6 buttered scallop shells, or 
porcelain or pyrex shells, 
of }3 cup capacity 

1⁄4 cup grated Swiss cheese 

2 Tb butter cut into 6 pieces 


219 


Spoon the scallops and sauce into the shells. Sprinkle 


with cheese and dot with butter. 
(*) Set aside or refrigerate until ready to gratiné. 


Just before serving, run under a moderately hot broiler 


for 3 to 4 minutes to heat through, and to brown the 
cheese lightly. 


THON A LA PROVENCALE 
[Tuna or Swordfish Steaks with Wine, Tomatoes, and Herbs] 


Tomatoes, wine, herbs, and garlic are a good contrast to tuna or swordfish, 
and this dish can be served either hot or cold. Boiled potatoes and green beans 
would go well, and a chilled rosé wine, or a dry white such as côtes de Pro- 


vence, or Riesling. 
For 6 to 8 people 


3 lbs. fresh tuna or sword- 
fish cut into steaks 34 inch 
thick (if fish is frozen, 
thaw it) 

A 9- by 14- inch pyrex bak- 
ing dish about 2! inches 
deep 

1 tsp salt 

2 Tb lemon juice 

6 Tb olive oil 

Vs tsp pepper 


3 to 4 Tb olive oil, more if 
needed 
A skillet 


1 cup minced yellow onions 
3 lbs. fresh, ripe, red toma- 


Remove skin, and cut fish steaks into serving pieces. 
Blend salt and lemon juice in baking dish, then beat 
in the oil and pepper. Arrange the fish in the dish, and 
baste with the marinade. Cover with waxed paper and 
marinate 114 to 2 hours, turning and basting the fish 
with the marinade several times. Drain the fish and 
dry it thoroughly on paper towels. Discard the 
marinade, which will be strong and fishy. 


Sauté the fish rapidly in very hot olive oil for a 
minute or two on each side to brown lightly. Rear- 
range the fish in the baking dish. 


Preheat oven to 350 degrees. 


Cook the onions slowly in the skillet for 5 minutes or 
so until tender but not browned. Stir in the tomato 


220 


toes peeled, seeded, juiced, 
and chopped, page 505 

2 cloves mashed garlic 

12 tsp oregano 

Y tsp thyme 

14 tsp salt 

W tsp pepper 


1 cup dry white wine or % 
cup dry white vermouth 


A serving platter 


1 to 2 Tb tomato paste for 
added flavor and color 

Optional: 1 Tb meat glaze, 
page 110, for depth of fla- 
vor 


1 Tb flour blended to a paste 
with 1 Tb softened butter 
2 to 3 Tb chopped parsley 


CHAPTER FIVE: FISH 


pulp, garlic, seasonings, and herbs. Cover skillet and 
cook slowly for 5 minutes. Correct seasoning, and 
spread the tomato mixture over the fish. 


kJ 


| 
Place a cover or aluminum foil over the baking dish 
and bring to the simmer on top of the stove. Then set 
in lower third of preheated oven and bake for 15 
minutes. Pour in the wine and bake for 30 minutes 
more, turning oven down to 325 degrees as soon as 
fish ‘is simmering. 


Remove fish to a serving platter, scraping the sauce 


off the fish and back into the baking dish. Keep fish 


warm for about 5 minutes while finishing the sauce. 


Boil down the sauce over high heat until it has re- 


duced to about 2 cups. Stir in the tomato paste and 
optional meat glaze. Simmer for a moment, and cor- 
rect seasoning. 


Off heat, beat in the flour and butter paste, and bring 


again to the simmer for 1 minute. Stir in the chopped 
parsley, spoon the sauce over the fish, and serve. 

(*) Fish may be set aside, then covered and reheated 
in the oven, but be careful not to overcook it. 


Other Fish—Green cod or coalfish, ocean pollack, and halibut may be 
cooked in the same way. They need no marinating and require only 20 to 30 


minutes of baking. 


TWO FAMOUS LOBSTER DISHES 


A NOTE ON DEALING WITH LIVE LOBSTERS 


If you object to steaming or splitting a live lobster, it may be killed almost 
instantly just before cooking if you plunge the point of a knife into the head. 
between the eyes, or sever the spinal cord by making a small incision in the 
back of the shell at the juncture of the chest and the tail. 


LOBSTER 


220 


HOMARD THERMIDOR 
[Lobster Thermidor - Gratinéed in its Shell] ` 


So many steps are involved in the preparation of a really splendid lobster 


Thermidor, no wonder it costs a fortune in any restaurant! But it is not a 


particularly difficult dish to execute, and everything may be prepared in ad- 


vance and heated up just before serving. This is an especially attractive recipe 
for lobster Thermidor because the meat is stirred in hot butter before it is 


sauced, and turns a rosy red. Buy lobsters weighing a good 2 pounds each, so 
the shells will be large enough to hold the filling. 


For 6 people 


Steaming the lobsters 


A covered, enameled or 
stainless steel kettle with 
tight-fitting cover 

3 cups dry white wine (or 2 
cups dry white vermouth) 
and 2 cups water 

A large onion, a medium 
carrot, and a celery stalk, 
all thinly sliced 

6 parsley sprigs 

1 bay leaf 

14 tsp thyme 

6 peppercorns 

1 Tb fresh or dried tarragon 

3 live lobsters, 2 lbs. each 


14 lb. sliced fresh mush- 


rooms 


1 Tb butter 

1 tsp lemon juice 

VY tsp salt 

A covered enameled or 


stainless steel saucepan 


The sauce 


Simmer wine, water, vegetables, herbs, and seasonings 
in the kettle for 15 minutes. Then bring to a rolling 
boil and add the live lobsters. Cover and boil for about 
20 minutes. The lobsters are done when they are 
bright red and the long head-feelers can be pulled 
from the sockets fairly easily. 


While the lobsters are steaming, stew the mushrooms 
slowly in the covered saucepan with the butter, lemon 
juice, and salt for 10 minutes. 


When the lobsters are done, remove them from the 
kettle. Pour the mushroom cooking juices into the 
lobster steaming juices in the kettle and boil down 
rapidly until liquid has reduced to about 2/4 cups. 


222 


A 4-cup enameled or stain- 
less steel saucepan 


5 Tb butter 

6 Tb flour 

A x¥%-quart, heavy-bot- 
tomed, enameled or stain- 
less steel saucepan 

A wooden spoon 

A wire whip 

1 Tb cream 


A 3-quart mixing bowl 

1 Tb dry mustard 

2 egg yolks 

12 cup whipping cream 
Pinch of cayenne pepper 


4 to 6 Tb more whipping 


cream 


CHAPTER FIVE: FISH 


Strain into the saucepan and bring to the simmer. 


Cook the butter and flour slowly together in the sec- 


ond saucepan for 2 minutes without browning. Off 
heat, beat in the simmering lobster-cooking liquid. 
Boil, stirring, for x minute. Set aside. Film top of 
sauce with the cream. 


Split the lobsters in half lengthwise, keeping the shell 


halves intact. Discard sand sacks in the heads, and the 
intestinal tubes. Rub lobster coral and green matter 
through a fine sieve into the mixing bowl, and blend 
into it the mustard, egg yolks, cream, and pepper. 
Beat the sauce into this mixture by driblets. 


Return the sauce to the pan and, stirring with a 


wooden spoon, bring it to the boil and boil slowly for 
2 minutes. Thin out with tablespoons of cream. Sauce 
should be thick enough to coat a spoon fairly heavily. 
Taste carefully for seasoning. Set aside, top filmed 
with a spoonful of cream. 


Sautéing the lobster meat 


A 12-inch enameled or 
stainless steel skillet 

4 Tb butter 

Ys cup cognac 


Final assembly 


Remove the meat from the lobster tails and claws, 
and cut it into 34-inch cubes. 


Set the skillet with the butter over moderate heat. 


When the butter foam begins to subside, stir in the 
lobster meat and sauté, stirring slowly, for about 5 
minutes until the meat has turned a rosy color. Pour 
in the cognac and boil for a minute or two, shaking 


the skillet, until the liquid has reduced by half. 


? 


Preheat oven to 425 degrees. 


Fold the cooked mushrooms and two thirds of de 
sauce into the skillet with the lobster meat. 


LOBSTER 


A shallow roasting pan or 
fireproof serving platter 
Y, cup grated Parmesan or 

Swiss cheese 
2 Tb butter cut into bits 


223 





Arrange the split lobster shells in the roasting pan. 
Heap the lobster mixture into the shells; cover with 
the remaining sauce. Sprinkle with cheese and dot 
with butter. 

(*) May be prepared ahead up to this point and re- 
frigerated. 


Place in upper third of 425-degree oven for 10 to 15 


minutes, until lobster is bubbling and the top of the 
sauce is nicely browned. Serve immediately on a plat- 
ter or serving plates. 





VARIATION 


Homard aux Aromates 


[Lobster Steamed in Wine with Herb Sauce] 


This is not a variation of lobster Thermidor at all, but it fits well into 


this niche. 


Ingredients for steaming 3 
lobsters in wine, herbs, 
and aromatic vegetables as 
in the preceding Thermi- 
dor recipe 


1% Tb flour blended to a 
paste with 172 Tb softened 
butter 

About 1 cup of whipping 
cream 


3 to 4 Tb fresh minced green 
herbs: parsley, chervil, 
and tarragon, or parsley 


only 


Steam the lobsters for about 20 minutes as described 
in the preceding recipe. Remove them. Rapidly boil 
down their cooking liquid until it has reduced to 2 
cups. The sliced carrots and onions need not be re- 
moved. 


Off heat, beat in the flour and butter paste. Then 


bring to the boil for 15 seconds. Reduce to the simmer 
and stir in the cream by tablespoons until the sauce 
is the consistency of a light cream soup. Correct 
seasoning and stir in the herbs. 


Split the lobsters in two, lengthwise. Remove stomach 


sacks in heads and intestinal tubes. Arrange the lob- 
sters in a serving dish, pour the sauce over them, and 
serve. 


HOMARD A L’AMERICAINE 


[Lobster Simmered with Wine, Tomatoes, Garlic, and Herbs] 


Homard à l'américaine is live lobster chopped into serving pieces, sautéed 


in oil until the shells turn red, then flamed in cognac, and simmered with wine, 


224 CHAPTER FIVE: FISH 


aromatic vegetables, herbs, and tomatoes. In France, unless you are at a formal 
dinner, the meat is left in the shells and guests dig in, flanked by finger bowl 
and napkin. We have noticed that many Americans prefer that the meat be 
removed from the shells before the dish is served, which is too bad, as it makes 
more work for the cook. 

The origin of homard à l'américaine is a subject for discussion. Some 
authorities call it à armoricaine, after the añcient province of Armorique in 
Brittany where lobsters grow. Others say armoricaine is nonsense because the 
tomato flavoring is quite untypical of Brittany and that the recipe is far more 
likely the product of a Paris chef with Provençal inclinations who titled his 
dish after an American client, or after the exotic origins of the tomato. In any 
case it is a splendid creation for fresh lobster, and though we are not partial to 
frozen lobster tails, it is one of the best ways we know to cook them. 

Risotto simmered in fish stock, or steamed rice, and a dry white wine with 
body such as Burgundy, Côtes du Rhône, or Graves would make fine ac- 
companiments. 


For 6 people 


Three 114-Ib. live lobsters 
(or 6 frozen lobster tails 


Split the lobsters in two lengthwise. Remove stomach 
sacks (in the head) and intestinal tubes. Reserve coral 


partially defrosted and 
cut in half lengthwise) 


3 Tb olive oil 
A heavy 12-inch enameled 
skillet or casserole 


1 medium carrot, finely 
diced 
1 medium onion, finely 


diced 


Salt and pepper 

3 Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 

x clove mashed garlic 


and green matter. Remove claws and joints and crack 
them. Separate tails from chests. 


Heat the oil in the skillet until it is very hot but not 
smoking. Add the lobster pieces, meat-side down, and 
sauté for several minutes, turning them, until the 
shells are bright red. Remove lobster to a side dish. 


Stir in the diced carrot and onion, and cook slowly 
for 5 minutes or until almost tender. 


Preheat oven to 350 degrees. 


Season the lobster, return it to the skillet, and add the 
shallots or green onions, and the garlic. With the skils 
let over moderate heat, pour in the cognac. Avert your 
face and ignite the cognac with a lighted match and 


LOBSTER 


V3 cup cognac 

1 lb. fresh, ripe, tomatoes, 
peeled, seeded, juiced, and 
chopped, page 505 

2 Tb tomato paste 

1 cup fish stock, page 114, or 
3 cup bottled clam juice 

1¥2 cups dry white wine or 
1 cup dry white vermouth 

Optional: 1⁄2 Tb meat glaze, 
page 110 

2 Tb chopped parsley 

1 Tb fresh tarragon or 1 tsp 
dried tarragon 


6 Tb softened butter 

The lobster coral and green 
matter 

A 3-quart mixing bowl 


A ring of risotto or steamed 
rice 

2 to 3 Tb minced parsley, or 
parsley and fresh tarragon 


225 


shake the skillet slowly until the flames have subsided. 
Stir in all the ingredients to the left. Bring to the 
simmer on top of the stove. Cover and place in middle 
level of preheated oven. Regulate heat so lobster sim- 
miers quietly for 20 minutes. 


While the lobster is simmering, force the lobster coral 
and green matter with the butter through a fine sieve 
into the mixing bowl and set aside. 


When the lobster is done, remove it to a side dish. 
Take the meat out of the shells if you wish. Set skillet 
with its cooking liquids over high heat and boil down 
rapidly until sauce has reduced and thickened slightly. 
It will acquire more body later when the butter and 
coral mixture is added. Taste very carefully for season- 
ing. 

(*) Recipe may be completed to this point, and fin- 
ished later. 


Return the lobster to the sauce and bring to the sim- 
mer to reheat the lobster. Beat a cupful of hot sauce by 
driblets into the coral and butter mixture, then pour 
the mixture into the skillet with the lobster. Shake 
and swirl the skillet over low heat for 2 to 3 minutes 
to poach the coral and green matter, but do not bring 
the sauce near the simmer again. 


Arrange the lobster and sauce in the rice ring, decorate 
with herbs, and serve immediately. 


226 CHAPTER FIVE: FISH 





MUSSELS 
Moules. 


Mussels, with their long, oval, blue-black shells and delicious pink-orange 
flesh are often called the poor man’s oyster. Clinging to rocks and piers along 
the seacoasts everywhere, they can be had for the picking at low tide. If you 


> 


are gathering mussels yourself, take them only from places washed by clear, 
clean, sea water. 


SCRUBBING AND SOAKING MUSSELS 

Before they can be cooked, mussels must have a rather long and careful 
cleaning process to remove all possible sand from their interiors, and to rid 
the shells of any slime and dirt which might spoil the excellent juices they 
render as they steam open. Discard any mussels that are not firmly closed, or 
which feel lighter in weight than the rest. Discard also any too-heavy mussels, 
as they may be nothing but sand enclosed between two mussel shells. Scrub 
each mussel very clean with a rough brush under running water. Then with a 
small knife, scrape off the tuft of hairs, or beard, which protrudes from be- 
tween one side of the closed shell halves. Set the mussels in a basin or bucket of 
fresh water for an hour or two so they will disgorge their sand and also lose a 
bit of their saltiness. Lift the mussels out of the water into a colander, wash and 
drain them again, and they are ready to cook. 

Note: Some cooks add flour to the soaking water on the theory that while 
the mussels eat the flour and become fatter and more succulent, they are at the 
same time disgorging their sand more thoroughly. Use 14 cup of flour for each 
2 quarts of water, beating the flour and a bit of water with a whip first, to mix 
it thoroughly. Then, after soaking the mussels, lift them into a colander, and 
rinse them in cold water. 


CANNED MUSSELS 

Beware of sand if you are using canned mussels. If there is any sand at 
all in the juices at the bottom of the can, soak the mussels in several changes of 
cold water. Eat one, and if it is sandy, continue washing the mussels. Good 
quality canned mussels may be substituted for fresh mussels in all but the first 
two of the following recipes; the canned juices may be used as stock for your. 
sauce. Simmer the juices with a bit of white wine or vermouth, and fill out the 
quantity of stock called for in your recipe with boiling milk. 


MUSSELS 


227 


MOULES À LA MARINIÈRE : I 
[Fresh Mussels Steamed Open in Wine and Flavorings] 


Here is the simplest version of this most typical of French methods for 
cooking mussels. They are steamed open in a big pot with wine and flavorings, 
and it takes only about 5 minutes. Then the mussels, shells and all, are dipped 
out into soup plates, and the cooking liquor is poured over them. Each guest 
removes the mussels one by one from their shells with fingers or a fork and 
discards the shells into a side dish. In addition to shell dish and fork, provide 
your guests with a soupspoon for drinking up the mussel juices, a big napkin, 
and a finger bowl. Along with the mussels serve French bread, butter, and a 
chilled, light, dry white wine such as Muscadet, dry Graves, or one of the 


Pouillys. 
For 6 to 8 people 


2 cups of light, dry white 
wine or 1 cup dry white 
vermouth 

An 8- to 10-quart enameled 
kettle with cover 

14 cup minced shallots, or 
green onions, or very 
finely minced onions 

8 parsley sprigs 

12 bay leaf 

14 tsp thyme 

78 tsp pepper 

6 Tb butter 


6 quarts scrubbed, soaked 
mussels, page 226 


7, cup roughly chopped 
parsley 


Bring the wine to the boil in the kettle with the rest 


of the ingredients listed. Boil for 2 to 3 minutes to 
evaporate its alcohol and to reduce its volume slightly. 


Add the mussels to the kettle. Cover tightly and boil 


quickly over high heat. Frequently grasp the kettle 
with both hands, your thumbs clamped to the cover, 
and toss the mussels in the kettle with an up and 
down slightly jerky motion so the mussels will change 
levels and cook evenly. In about 5 minutes the shells 
will swing open and the mussels are done. 


With a big skimmer, dip the mussels into wide soup 


plates. Allow the cooking liquid to settle for a moment 
so any sand will sink to the bottom. Then ladle the 
liquid over the mussels, sprinkle with parsley and 
serve immediately. 


228 


CHAPTER FIVE: FISH 





MOULES À LA MARINIÈRE * II 


[Mussels Steamed with Wine, Flavorings, and Bread Crumbs | 


In this quite different method, bread crumbs cook with the mussels and 
give a liaison to the sauce. Here you must be sure that the mussels are most 
carefully washed and soaked so there will bè no sand to mix itself with the 


crumbs. 
For 6 to 8 people 


3 cups finely minced onions 

14 lb. (8 Tb) butter 

An 8- to 10-quart enameled 
kettle with cover 


2 cups light, dry white wine 
or 1 cup dry white ver- 
mouth 

1% cups fine, dry, white 
bread crumbs from home- 
made type of bread 

12 cup chopped parsley 

78 tsp pepper 

1 bay leaf 

V4 tsp thyme 


6 quarts scrubbed, soaked 
mussels, page 226 
3 cup chopped parsley 


Cook the onions slowly in the butter for about 10 
minutes, until they are tender and translucent but not 
browned. 


Stir in all the ingredients at the left, cover the kettle, 


and simmer very slowly for 10 minutes, stirring oc- 
casionally, and making sure the mixture does not 
scorch. Remove bay leaf. 


Add the mussels. Cover and toss them in the kettle. 
Set over high heat, tossing frequently until the mussel 
shells swing open. Ladle the mussels and sauce into 
soup plates, sprinkle with parsley, and serve. 





MOULES AU BEURRE D’ESCARGOT 


MOULES A LA PROVENCALE 
[Mussels on the Half Shell, Gratinéed ] 


? 


These are delicious as a first course. Serve them with French bread and a 
rather strong, dry, white wine such as Mâcon, côtes de Provence, white 


Chianti, or a domestic equivalent. 


For 4 to 6 people 


MUSSELS 


48 extra large, scrubbed and 
soaked mussels, page 226 


6 ounces or 114 sticks of 
softened butter 

A 2-quart mixing bowl 

A wooden spoon 

3 Tb finely minced shallots 
or green onions 

x to 3 cloves mashed garlic, 
depending on your love 
of garlic 

Y cup minced parsley 

12 cup fine, white, dry bread 
crumbs 

Salt and pepper to taste 


229 


For this recipe you may steam the mussels open as for 
moules à la marinière L, preceding, or you may open 
the raw mussels with a knife. We prefer the latter 
method. When the mussels are open, discard the 
empty shell halves. Arrange the remaining half shells 
holding the mussels in a shallow baking and serving 


‘dish, or individual fireproof dishes. 


Beat the butter in the mixing bowl until it is light and 


creamy. Beat in the rest of the ingredients and taste 
for seasoning. Spread a bit of the mixture over each 
mussel. 

(*) May be prepared ahead of time to this point. 
Cover the mussels with waxed paper and refrigerate. 


About 2 or 3 minutes before serving, run the mussels 
under a very hot broiler until the butter is bubbling in 
the shells and the crumbs have browned lightly. 
Serve immediately. 





SALADE DE MOULES 
[Mussels Marinated in Oil and Herbs] 


2 cups of cooked, fresh 
mussels (or canned or 
frozen mussels) 


4 Tb light olive oil or salad 
oil 

1 Tb dry white vermouth 
and 1 Tb lemon juice 

2 Tb finely minced shallots 
or green onions 

3 Tb minced parsley or a 
mixture of fresh green 
herbs 

Pinch of pepper 


Steam fresh mussels open as directed in moules à la 
marinière I, page 227. Discard shells. 


Toss the mussels in a bowl with the ingredients at 


the left and allow them to marinate half an hour be- 
fore serving. They may be served just as they are, or 
you may drain them and fold into them half a cup of 
mayonnaise, page 87. Place them in a bowl or indi- 


vidual shells. 


230 CHAPTER FIVE: FISH 





x MOULES EN SAUCE 
MOUCLADES 
MOULES À LA POULETTE 
MOULES À LA BÉARNAISE 
[Sauced Mussels Served in Scallop Shells] 


This is a more formal recipe for mussels. They are steamed open with 
wine and flavorings, then a rich, creamy, buttery sauce is made with their 
cooking liquid. This is the same heavily buttered sauce parisienne found on 
page 214, but with a quite different flavor. If the mussels are served on the half 
shell, as they often are in Brittany, they are called mouclades. We have sug- 
gested in the following recipe that they be shelled, sauced, and served in scallop 
shells; done this way they may be prepared ahead of time. There are naturally 
many versions and flavorings for mussels served in a sauce. For instance, if you 
omitted the curry, garlic, and fennel in the recipe, and substituted 4 cup of 
mushroom stems, your mussel dish would be 2 la poulette. Also, if you omitted 
the special flavorings, and the cream, egg yolks, and butter enrichment, then 
stirred a cup of béarnaise sauce into your velouté just before serving, you would 
have moules à la béarnaise. 

For 6 people 


5 to 6 quarts scrubbed, 
soaked mussels, page 226. 
(A 2-hour soaking is ad- 
visable here to rid the 
mussels of as much salt as 
possible) 

The wine and flavoring for 
moules à la marinière 
I, page 227, plus: 

Y tsp curry powder 
A pinch of fennel 
1 clove mashed garlic 


3 Tb butter 

4 Tb flour 

A 2-quart, heavy-bottomed 
enameled saucepan 

A wooden spoon 


Steam the mussels open in wine and flavorings, fol- 


lowing the method for moules à la marinière I, page 
227. Shell the mussels and place them in a bowl. Strain 
the mussel cooking liquor into an enameled saucepan 
and rapidly boil it down over high heat to concentrate 
its flavor. Taste it frequently as it boils; you may find 
that if you reduce it too much, the salt content will be 
overpowering. Measure out 114 cups of the concen- 
trated liquor to be used in the following sauce: 


Stir the butter and flour over low heat in the sauce- 


pan until they foam and froth together for 2 minutes 


without coloring. Remove roux from heat. 3 


MUSSELS 


A wire whip 


2 egg yolks 

12 cup whipping cream 
A mixing bowl 

A wire whip 

A wooden spoon 

Salt and pepper 

Drops of lemon juice 


4 to 8 Tb softened butter 

6 buttered scallop shells or 
porcelain or pyrex shells 
of 4 cup capacity 

Parsley sprigs 


204 


Strain the hot mussel cooking liquor into the flour and 
butter roux, being sure -not to add any sand that may 
have collected at the bottom of the mussel kettle. Beat 
roux and liquid with a wire whip to blend thoroughly. 
Bring to the boil, stirring, for 1 minute. Sauce will be 


very thick. 


Blend the egg yolks and cream in the mixing bowl. 
Gradually beat in the hot sauce, in a thin stream of 
droplets. Pour the sauce back into the pan. Set over 
moderately high heat and stir with a wooden spoon, 
reaching all over the bottom of the pan, until the sauce 
comes to the boil. Boil 1 minute, stirring. Remove 
from heat and taste carefully for seasoning, stirring in 
salt, pepper, and drops of lemon juice if necessary. 
Fold the mussels into the sauce. 

(*) If not to be served immediately, clean sauce off 
sides of pan and film top of sauce with milk. Set aside 
uncovered, and reheat to simmer when ready to use. 


Just before serving, and off heat, fold the butter into 
the hot sauce and mussels 1 tablespoon at a time. Fold 
until each bit is absorbed before adding the next. Heap 
the mixture into the shells, decorate with parsley, and 
serve immediately. 





VARIATIONS 
Pilaf de Moules 


[Sauced Mussels in a Rice Ring | 


Prepare and sauce the mussels exactly as in the preceding recipe, but serve 


them in a ring of risotto, page 532. 


Soupe aux Moules 


[Mussel Soup] 


The very same recipe may also be turned into a mussel soup. After enrich- 


ing the sauce with cream and egg yolks, thin it out to a cream soup consistency 


232 CHAPTER FIVE: FISH 


with several cups of boiling milk. Then add the mussels, and bring just to the 
simmer. Off heat, and just before serving, fold in 2 tablespoons of butter, one 
by one. Decorate with minced parsley or chervil. 


Seats 


os 
OTHER RECIPES-OTHER SAUCES 
Fish Recipes Appearing in Other Chapters 


FISH SOUFFLÉS 

Salmon Soufflé, page 166 ` 

Flounder Soufflé with sauce mousseline sabayon, page 168 
Shellfish Soufflé, page 170 

Fish Soufflé Baked on a Platter, page 170 

Unmolded Soufflés, page 171 


Fish Timbales, pages 174-5 

Fish Quenelles, page 185 

Creamed Shellfish, page 202 

Shellfish Quiche, open-faced tart, page 149 

Gratin of Canned Salmon or Tuna, or of Fish Leftovers, page 156 
Bouillabaisse, page 52 

Crab or Lobster in Aspic, pages 549, 553 

Salmon Mousse, page 562 

Fish and Shellfish Mousse, pages 562, 564 


Sauces for Boiled or Baked Fish 


Hollandaise and Variations, pages 70 to 85 

Mock Hollandaise and Variations, page 64 

White Butter Sauce and Lemon Butter Sauce, pages 96 and 98 
Brown Butter Sauce, page 08 > 

Sauce Chivry, white-wine herb sauce, page 62 

Aioli, garlic mayonnaise, page 92 

Sauce Alsacienne, herbal mayonnaise with soft-boiled eggs, page 93 
Sauce Ravigote, vinaigrette with herbs, capers and onions, page 95 
Sour Cream Dressing, page 95 


L] 


OTHER FISH SAUCES 


Sauces for Sautéed or Broiled Fish 
Mustard Sauce, page 66 i 
Brown Butter Sauce, page 98 
Many of the Flavored Butters, pages 100 to 105 


Sauces for Cold Fish 


Mayonnaise and Variations, pages 86 to 94 
Sauce Ravigote, vinaigrette with herbs, capers, and onions, page 95 
Sour Cream Dressing, page 95 


233 


nA 


N à S = 


CHAPTER SIX 


POULTRY 


Volaille 


CHICKEN 


Poulet — Poularde 


Berre OF THE most glorious dishes of the French cuisine have been 
created for chicken, and almost all the fundamentals of French cookery and 
sauce making are to be found somewhere in the chicken realm. The most im- 
portant aspect of chicken cooking is that you procure a good and flavorsome 
bird. Modern poultry raising has done wonders in making it possible to grow 
a fine-looking chicken in record time and to sell it at a most reasonable price, 
‘but rarely does anyone in the country discuss flavor. If you are interested in 
price alone, you will often end up with something that tastes like the stuffing 
inside a teddy bear and needs strong dousings of herbs, wines, and spices to 
make it at all palatable. A chicken should taste like chicken and be so good in 
itself that it is an absolute delight to eat as a perfectly plain, buttery roast, 
sauté, or grill. So when you buy chicken, make every attempt to find a market 
which takes special pride in the quality and flavor of its poultry. 


CHICKEN TYPES 


Chickens fall into several categories, all of which relate to age. Age dic- . 
tates the cooking method. A broiler, for instance, may be broiled, or roasted, 
but its very tender flesh becomes dry and stringy if it is fricasseed. The full- 


CHICKEN TYPES 235 


flavored stewing hen, on the other hand, must be fricasseed or stewed, as its 
flesh is too firm to be cooked in any other way. 





USUAL U.S. 
NEAREST WEIGHT 
FRENCH READY TO COOKING 
AMERICAN CHICKEN EQUIVALENT COOK METHOD 
SQUAB CHICKEN Poussin % to 1 lb. Broil, Grill, 
or Baby Broiler Coquelet Roast 
BROILER Poulet Nouveau 1% to 2 Broil, Grill, 
(2 to 3 months old) lbs. Roast 
FRYER Poulet de Grain 24 to 312 Fry, Sauté, 
(small) Ibs. Roast, Casserole 
Poulet Reine Roast, Fricassee, 
(larger) Poach 
ROASTER Poulet Gras Usually Roast, Casserole 
~ Poularde 4 to 6 Roast, Poach, 
lbs. Fricassee 
CAPON and CAPONETTE Chapon Usually Roast, Casserole 
4to7 Roast, Poach, 
lbs. Fricassee 
STEWING CHICKEN Poule de l'Année Usually Stew, Fricassee 
or FOWL over 4 
(8 to 12 months old) Ibs. 
OLD HEN, COCK, or Vielle Poule Usually If still tender: 
ROOSTER Coq over 4 Stew, Fricassee 
(over 12 months old) lbs. If tough: 


Soup Stock, 
Forcemeat, Pété; 
Pressure cook 





DEFROSTING FROZEN CHICKEN 


The best method for defrosting frozen chicken, according to those in the 
business, is the slowest: leave it in its transparent wrapper and let it thaw in the 
refrigerator. It will lose much less of its juice and flavor. The best alternative 
is to unwrap it and thaw it in a basin of cold, running water, removing the 
package of giblets from the cavity as soon as it can be pried loose, and pulling 
the legs and wings away from the body as soon as they will move. 


236 CHAPTER SIX: POULTRY 


Sometimes frozen roasters, fryers, and broilers can be quite tough and 
stringy. According to the Poultry and Egg National Board, this is usually the 
result of their having been frozen while they were too fresh. If the frozen 
chicken is flavorless, it may have thawed and been refrezen several times, so the 
juices escaped; or it may be too young a bird to have a developed flavor. 


WASHING AND DRYING 


Because commercially raised chickens, on the whole, are packed in a 
communal tub of ice during at least part of their processing, it is probably 
wise to give them a thorough washing and drying before storing or cooking— 
just to be on the safe side. 


SINGEING 


Usually American chickens have been plucked absolutely clean. If not, 
pluck and squeeze out feather follicles, then turn the chicken rapidly over a 
gas or alcohol flame to burn off any hairs or feather bits. 


* CHICKEN STOCK 


A little concentrated chicken stock is easy to make with the giblets and 
neck of a chicken and will always give more character to your sauce, however 
simple it may be. 


Brown Chicken Stock 


For about 1 cup 


A heavy-bottomed, 2-quart Chop the chicken into pieces of 114 inches or less. 
saucepan Brown them with the vegetables in hot fat or oil. 
The chicken neck, gizzard, 
heart, and miscellaneous 
scraps 
1 sliced onion 
x sliced carrot 
172 Tb rendered fresh pork 


fat or cooking oil 





2 cups white or brown stock, Pour out the browning fat. Add the liquid, the herks, ` 
or canned beef bouillon, and enough water to cover the chicken by 12 inch. 
or chicken broth Simmer partially covered for 114 hours or more, 


CHICKEN 237 


2 parsley sprigs skimming as necessary. Strain, degrease, and the stock 
13 bay leaf is ready to use. 
V8 tsp thyme 


White Chicken Stock 


Same as brown chicken stock, but do not brown the ingredients, and use 
white stock or canned chicken broth. 


STUFFING WARNING 
Stuffings may be prepared in advance, but a chicken should never be 


stuffed until just before it is cooked, as the mixture may sour inside the chicken 
and spoil the meat. 


HOW TO TRUSS A CHICKEN 


A whole chicken should be trussed so the legs, wings, and neck skin are 
held in place during its cooking, and the bird will make a neat and attractive 
appearance on the table. The following French method calls for a trussing or 
mattress needle and white string. There are two ties, one at the tail end to 
secure the drumsticks, and one at the breast end to fasten the wings and neck 
skin. 


Tie Number 1 





Thrust the needle through the lower part of the carcass. 





238 CHAPTER SIX: POULTRY 





Come back over one drumstick, through the tip of the breastbone, and 
over the second drumstick. Tie. 


Tie Number 2 





| Push the needle through the carcass where the second joint and drum- 
"stick join, coming out at the corresponding point on the other side. 





CHICKE 
m 239 


Turn the chicken on its breast. Fold the wings akimbo. Go through one 
wing, catch the neck skin against either side of the backbone, and come out the 
other wing. Draw the string tightly and tie. 








The chicken is now ready for oven roasting, spit roasting, or poaching. 





HOW TO TELL WHEN A CHICKEN IS DONE 


A stewing chicken is done when its meat is tender if pierced with a fork. 
Roasters, fryers, and broilers are tender to begin with and are done when the 
flesh is cooked through so that the juices, when the meat is pricked deeply 
with a fork, run clear yellow with no trace of rosy color. For a whole chicken, 
the last drops of juice drained from the vent will run clear yellow with no 
rosy traces. While an underdone chicken is not fit to eat, it is a shame to over- 
cook chicken, allowing the meat to dry out and lose its juice and flavor. How- 
ever, we have noticed that the French criterion of doneness seems like under- 
doneness to some American palates. We consider a chicken to be cooked at a 
meat-thermometer reading of 175 to 180 degrees, and have based our recipes on 
these figures. The figure on American thermometers is 190 degrees. 


TIMETABLE FOR WHOLE CHICKENS: Oven Roasting, Casserole Roasting, 
Spit Roasting, and Poaching 


This table is based on unchilled, unstuffed chicken. Oven temperature 
for open-pan roasting is 350 degrees, for covered roasting, 325 degrees. Meat- 
thermometer reading is 175 to 180 degrees. Add 5 to 10 minutes more to the 
total roasting time if you wish a reading of 190 degrees. You will note that 
larger chickens require less cooking time per pound than smaller chickens. A 
4-pound chicken takes an hour and 10 to 20 minutes, while a 7-pound bird re- 
quires only 20 to 30 minutes more. Stuffed chicken will take 10 to 30 minutes 
additional roasting than the total time indicated. 


240 CHAPTER SIX: POULTRY 


ROASTING TIMETABLE-OVEN TEMPERATURE: 350 DEGREES 





APPROXIMATE 
READY-TO-COOK UNDRAWN WEIGHT |= NUMBER OF TOTAL COOKING 
WEIGHT (DRESSED WEIGHT) PEOPLE SERVED TIME 
34 lb. 1 lb. riers 30 to 40 minutes 
1% lbs. 2 lbs. 2 l 40 to 50 minutes 
N . 
2 lbs. 3 Ibs. 2 Ore 50 to 60 minutes 
3 lbs. 4 lbs. 4 1 hour and 10 to 
20 minutes 
4 lbs. 5 lbs. 40r5 1 hour and 15 to 
30 minutes 
412 lbs. 6 lbs. 5 or 6 1 hour and 25 to 
40 minutes 
5% lbs. 7 lbs. 6 or 8 1 hour and 30 to 
45 minutes 





ROAST CHICKEN 
x POULET ROTI 
[Roast Chicken] 


You can always judge the quality of a cook or a restaurant by roast 
chicken. While it does not require years of training to produce a juicy, brown, 
buttery, crisp-skinned, heavenly bird, it does entail such a greed for perfection 
that one is under compulsion to hover over the bird, listen to it, above all see 
that it is continually basted, and that it is done just to the proper turn. Spit 
"roasting, where the chicken is wrapped in fat and continually rotated, is far less 
exacting than oven roasting where you must constantly turn and baste. 

Small French chickens are frequently roasted without a stuffing. The 
cavity is seasoned with salt and butter, and the skin rubbed with butter. For 
oven roasting, it is browned lightly for 10 to 15 minutes at a temperature of 
425 degrees, then the temperature is reduced to 350, and the chicken is turned 
and basted until it is done. A simple, short deglazing sauce is made with stock 
and the juices in the pan, giving just a scant spoonful for each serving. 


VEGETABLE SUGGESTIONS 


Broiled tomatoes, buttered green beans or peas, and sautéed, roasted, 
souffléed, or fried potatoes, or potato crépes 


ROAST CHICKEN 241 


One of the potato casseroles on page 523, and green peas or beans 
Stuffed mushrooms, glazed carrots, and glazed onions 


Ratatouille (eggplant casserole), page 503, and sautéed potatoes 


WINE SUGGESTIONS 


A light red wine, such as a Bordeaux-Médoc, or a rosé 
For 4 people 


Estimated roasting time for a 3-pound chicken: 1 hour 
and 10 to 20 minutes 


Preheat oven to 425 degrees. 


A 3-lb., ready-to-cook roast- Sprinkle the inside of the chicken with the salt, and 


ing or frying chicken smear in half the butter. Truss the chicken, page 237. 
14 tsp salt -Dry it thoroughly, and rub the skin with the rest of 
2 Tb softened butter the butter. 


A shallow roasting pan just Place the chicken breast up in the roasting pan. Strew 
large enough to hold the the vegetables around it, and set it on a rack in the 


chicken easily middle of the preheated oven. Allow the chicken to 
To flavor the sauce: a small brown lightly for 15 minutes, turning it on the left 
sliced carrot and onion side after 5 minutes, on the right side for the last 5 


For basting: a small sauce- minutes, and basting it with the butter and oil after 
pan containing 2 Tb each turn. Baste rapidly, so oven does not cool off. 
melted butter, 1 Tb good Reduce oven to 350 degrees. Leave the chicken on its 
cooking oil; a basting side, and baste every 8 to 10 minutes, using the fat in 
brush the roasting pan when the butter and oil are ex- 

hausted. Regulate oven heat so chicken is making 
cooking noises, but fat is not burning. 


14 tsp salt Halfway through estimated roasting time, salt the 
chicken and turn it on its other side. Continue basting. 


14 tsp salt Fifteen minutes before end of estimated roasting time, 
salt again and turn the chicken breast up. Continue 
basting. 


Indications that the chicken is almost done are: a sud- 
den rain of splutters in the oven, a swelling of the 
breast and slight puff of the skin, the drumstick is 


242 CHAPTER SIX: POULTRY 


tender when pressed and can be moved in its socket. 
To check further, prick the thickest part of the drum- 
stick with a fork. Its juices should run clear yellow. 
As a final check, lift the chicken and drain the juices 
from its vent. If the last drops are clear yellow, the 
chicken is definitely done. If not, roast another 5 
minutes, and test again. 


When done, discard trussing strings and set the 
chicken on a hot platter. It should sit at room tempera- 
ture for 5 to 10 minutes before being carved, so its 
juices will retreat back into the tissues. 


% Tb minced shallot or Remove all but two tablespoons of fat from the pan. 
green onion Stir in the minced shallot or onion and cook slowly 
1 cup brown chicken stock, for 1 minute. Add the stock and boil rapidly over high 
canned chicken broth, or heat, scraping up coagulated roasting juices with a 


beef bouillon wooden spoon and letting liquid reduce to about ¥, 
Salt and pepper cup. Season with salt and pepper. Off heat and just 
1 to 2 Tb softened butter before serving, swirl in the enrichment butter by bits 


until it has been absorbed. Pour a spoonful of the 
sauce over the chicken, and send the rest to the table 
in a sauceboat. 


(*) AHEAD-OF-TIME NOTE 


Roast chicken can wait for 20 to 30 minutes in the turned-off hot oven, its 
door ajar. It cannot be reheated or it loses its fresh and juicy quality. 


Poulet à la Broche 
[Spit-roasted Chicken | 


Estimated roasting time: same as for oven-roasted chicken, see chart on 
page 240. 


3 to 4 strips of blanched 
bacon, page 15 (never use 
regular bacon; it will 
flavor the whole chicken) 








ROAST CHICKEN 243 


Season and truss the chicken as described in the preceding master recipe. 
Push the spit through it starting at the breast end. Dry it thoroughly, rub with 
butter and sprinkle with salt. Secure the strips of blanched bacon over the 
breast and thighs with white string. Because of the bacon, no basting is nec- 
essary until the very end. 

If you have a rotisserie, use the moderate heat and roast with the door 
closed. Remove bacon 15 minutes before the end, and baste with the pan drip- 
pings until the chicken is browned and done. 

If you have a spit attachment in the oven, use a moderate broiler tem- 
perature, leave oven door ajar, and place a pan under the chicken to catch the 
fat and juices. Fifteen minutes before the end, remove the bacon, increase 
broiler temperature, and continue roasting, basting frequently until the 
chicken is browned and done. 

Use the same tests as for oven roasting in determining when the chicken 
is done, and the same method for making the sauce. 


Poulet Rôti à la Normande 
[Roast Chicken Basted with Cream, Herb and Giblet Stuffing] 


In this lush combination, the chicken is roasted as usual, but is basted for 
the last minutes with heavy cream, which rolls off the buttery, brown chicken 
skin and combines with the pan and stuffing juices. 


VEGETABLE SUGGESTIONS 


Serve sautéed mushrooms and sautéed potatoes, or green peas and braised 
onions. 


WINE SUGGESTIONS 


A chilled white Burgundy or white Graves, or a red Bordeaux-Médoc 
would be appropriate. 
For 4 or 5 people 


Herb and giblet stuffing 


The chicken gizzard, peeled Sauté the gizzard in hot butter and oil for 2 minutes. 
and minced Then stir in the heart, liver, and shallots or onions. 
1 Tb butter Sauté for 2 minutes more, or until the liver has stiff- 


244 


V8 tsp oil 

A small skillet 

The chicken heart, chopped 

1 to 4 chopped chicken livers 

1 Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 


24 cup coarse crumbs from 
fresh homemade type of 
bread 

4 Tb cream cheese 

2 Tb softened butter 

3 Tb minced parsley 

V8 tsp tarragon or thyme 

V8 tsp salt 

Pinch of pepper 


A 3-lb. ready-to-cook roast- 
ing or frying chicken 
14 tsp salt 
1 Tb butter 
Roasting the chicken 


1 cup whipping cream 


. 4 tsp salt 


The sauce 


3 Tb strong brown chicken 
stock or canned beef 
bouillon 


3 to 4 Tb whipping cream 
Salt and pepper 
Drops of lemon juice 


Spoon a bit of sauce over the chicken and send the rest 


CHAPTER SIX: POULTRY 


ened but is still rosy inside. Scrape into a mixing 
bowl. 


Blend in the rest of the ingredients and taste carefully 


for seasoning. Let the stuffing cool. 


Sprinkle salt inside the chicken, and loosely fill with 
the stuffing. Sew or skewer the vent. Truss and dry 
the chicken, and rub its skin with butter. 


Roast it either in the oven, page 240, or on a spit, 
page 242. About 10 minutes before the end of the esti- 
mated roasting time, remove all but 1 spoonful of fat 
from the roasting pan. Start basting with 2 or 3 table- 
spoons of cream every 3 to 4 minutes until the chicken 
is done. The cream will probably look curdled in the 


pan, but this will be corrected later. 


Remove the chicken to a hot platter and sprinkle with 
salt. 


Add the stock or bouillon to the cream in the roasting 
pan and boil rapidly for 2 to 3 minutes, scraping up 
coagulated chicken roasting juices. 


Just before serving, remove from heat and stir in ad- 


ditional cream by spoonfuls to smooth out the sauce. 


Correct seasoning, and add drops of lemon juice to 
taste. 


to the table in a warmed sauceboat. 


ROAST CHICKEN 245 





Poulet au Porto 


[Roast Chicken Steeped, with Port Wine, Cream, and Mushrooms] 


Chicken, cream, and mushrooms occur again and again, as it is one of the 
great combinations. This perfectly delicious recipe is not difficult, but it cannot 
be prepared ahead of time or the chicken will lose its fresh and juicy quality. 
The chicken is roasted, then carved, flamed in cognac, and allowed to steep for 
several minutes with cream, mushrooms, and port wine. It is the kind of dish 
to do when you are entertaining a few good, food-loving friends whom you can 
receive in your kitchen. 


VEGETABLE SUGGESTIONS 


Nothing should interfere with these special flavors. It would be best to 
serve only potatoes sautéed in butter, page 526, or a perfectly seasoned risotto, 
page 532. Peas, or asparagus tips, or braised onions, page 481, could be added if 
you feel the necessity for more vegetables. 


WINE SUGGESTIONS 


Serve very good, chilled, white Burgundy such as a Meursault or Mon- 
trachet, or an excellent, château-bottled white Graves. 


For 4 people 
A 3-lb., ready-to-cook, roast- Roast the chicken as described in the master recipe on 
ing or frying chicken page 240. Be sure not to overcook it. 
1 lb. fresh mushrooms Meanwhile, trim and wash the mushrooms. Quarter 


them if large, leave them whole if small. 


A 2%4-quart enameled or Bring the water to boil in the saucepan with the but- 


stainless steel saucepan ter, lemon, and salt. Toss in the mushrooms, cover, 
l4 cup water and boil slowly for 8 minutes. Pour out the cooking 
1, Tb butter liquid and reserve. 


14 tsp lemon juice 
1⁄4 tsp salt 


1 cup whipping cream Pour the cream and the cornstarch mixture into the 

14 Tb cornstarch blended mushrooms. Simmer for 2 minutes. Correct seasoning, 
with 1 Tb of the cream and set aside. 

Salt and pepper 


246 


1% Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 


14 cup medium-dry port 
The mushroom cooking 
liquid 


The mushrooms in cream 
Salt and pepper 
Drops of lemon juice 


A fireproof casserole or a 
chafing dish 

x Tb butter 

¥ tsp salt 


l4 cup cognac 


CHAPTER SIX: POULTRY 


When the chicken is done, remove it to a carving 
board and let it rest at room temperature while com- 
pleting the sauce. 





Remove all but 2 tablespoons of fat from the roasting 
pan. Stir in the shallots or onions and cook slowly for 
1 minute. Add the port and the mushroom juice, and 
boil down rapidly, scraping up coagulated roasting 
juices, until liquid has reduced to about 1⁄4 cup. Add 
the mushrooms and cream and simmer for 2 to 3 
minutes, allowing the liquid to thicken slightly. Cor- 
rect seasoning and add lemon juice to taste. 


Smear the inside of the casserole or chafing dish with 
butter. Rapidly carve the chicken into serving pieces. 
Sprinkle lightly with salt, and arrange in the casserole 
or chafing dish. 


Set over moderate heat or an alcohol flame until you 
hear the chicken begin to sizzle. Then pour the co- 
gnac over it. Avert your face, and ignite the cognac 
with a lighted match. Shake the casserole slowly un- 
til the flames have subsided. Then pour in the mush- 
room mixture, tilting the casserole and basting the 
chicken. Cover and steep for 5 minutes without allow- 
ing the sauce to boil. Serve. 

(*) Chicken may remain in its casserole over barely 
simmering water or in the turned-off hot oven with 
its door ajar, for 10 to 15 minutes, but the sooner it is 
served, the better it will be. 





Coquelets sur Canapés 


[Roast Squab Chickens with Chicken Liver Canapés and Mushrooms] 


Also for: squab pigeons, game hens, partridge, quail, dove 

This is one of the classic French recipes for serving small roast birds. The 
livers are chopped, seasoned, and spread over sautéed bread rectangles; just be- 
fore serving, these are run under the broiler. Then the roast birds are placed on- 
them, and the dish is garnished with a wine-flavored deglazing sauce and 


sautéed mushrooms. 


ROAST CHICKEN 


247 


VEGETABLE SUGGESTIONS 


Only sautéed, shoestring, or souffléed potatoés, or homemade potato chips 


are suggested. 


WINE SUGGESTIONS 


Serve a red Bordeaux-Médoc for chicken, game hens, or pigeon; red 


Bordeaux-St. Emilion or red Burgundy for game. 


For 6 people, 1 bird apiece 


A Note on the Order of Battle: Although the mushrooms and canapés may be 
prepared while the birds are roasting, it seems best to do them ahead and re- 


lieve pressure, for the roast birds should be served almost as soon as they are 


done. 


The mushrooms 


1/4, lbs. fresh mushrooms 

2 Tb butter 

t Tb oil 

A 10- to 12-inch enameled 
skillet 


1 Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 
14 clove mashed garlic 


The canapés 


Homemade-type of white 
bread 


12 cup clarified butter, page 


15 
A skillet 


6 poultry or game livers 
from the birds 

3 Tb fresh, raw pork fat; 
OR fat bacon simmered 
in water for 10 minutes, 
rinsed, and dried 


TE and wash the mushrooms. Leave whole if small, 


quarter if large. Dry in a towel. Sauté for 5 to 6 min- 
utes in hot butter and oil until they are very lightly 
browned. 


Stir in the shallots or onions, and garlic, and cook 
over moderate heat for 2 minutes. Set aside. 


Cut 6 slices of bread 1⁄4 inch thick. Remove crusts, 
and cut slices into rectangles 2 by 34 inches. 


Sauté the bread lightly on each side in hot clarified 
butter. 


Trim the livers, cutting off any black or green spots. 
Chop very fine, almost into a purée, with the pork fat 
or bacon. Then blend the liver in a bowl with the 
seasonings, wine, and optional foie gras. Spread the 
mixture on one side of each rectangle of sautéed 
bread. Arrange on a broiling pan and set aside. (Pre- 


248 


V4 tsp salt 

Big pinch of pepper 

1 Tb Madeira, port, or co- 
gnac 

Optional: a to 3 Tb foze 
gras 


Roasting the birds 


Six 10- to 12-ounce, ready- 
to-cook squab chickens, 
game hens, squab pigeons, 
or game birds 

12 Tb salt 

2 Tb finely minced shallots 
or green onions 

12 tsp dried tarragon 

4 Tb butter 

6 strips of bacon simmered 
in water for 10 minutes, 
rinsed, and dried 


A shallow roasting pan just 
large enough to hold the 
birds easily on their sides 

3 Tb butter melted with x 
Tb good cooking oil 

A basting brush 


13 Tb salt 


The sauce 
1 Tb minced 


green onions 


shallots or 


CHAPTER SIX: POULTRY 


heat broiler in time to cook the canapés just before 
serving.) 


» 


` 


Preheat oven to 400 degrees. 


Season the cavities of the birds with a sprinkling of 


salt, shallots or onion, and tarragon, and 1 teaspoon of 
butter. Truss the birds, dry them, and rub with butter. 
Cut ‘the blanched bacon in half, crosswise, and tie 2 
strips over the breast and thighs of each bird. 


Place the birds in the roasting pan, and set on a rack 
in the middle of the preheated oven. Baste and turn 
the birds every 5 to 7 minutes until they are done: 
CHICKENS will take from 30 to 40 minutes; they 
are done when the last drops of juice from their vents 
run clear yellow with no trace of rose. 

GAME HENS, as their flesh is usually firmer than 
chicken, take about 45 minutes; they are done when 
the flesh of their drumsticks is soft. 

PARTRIDGE and QUAIL, if young and tender, may 
be judged like chicken; if older, like game hens. 
PIGEON and DOVE may be served slightly under- 
done if you wish, when their juices run a very pale 
rose rather than a clear yellow. 

When done, remove trussing strings, sprinkle the 
birds with salt, and place them on a warm platter. 
Set in turned-off oven, its door ajar. 


Remove all but 2 tablespoons of fat from the roasting 
pan. Stir in the shallots or onions and cook slowly for 


ROAST CHICKEN 


1% cups brown chicken 
stock, brown stock, or 
canned beef bouillon 

14 cup Madeira or port 

I to 2 Tb softened butter 


Final assembly 


r Tb butter 
14 tsp salt 
Pinch of pepper 


A handful of water-cress 
leaves or parsley sprigs 


249 


1 minute. Add the stock or bouillon and wine and 
boil rapidly, scraping up coagulated cooking juices un- 
til liquid has reduced to about 4 cup. Correct season- 
ing. Off heat and just before serving, swirl the butter 
into the sauce. 


Just before serving, run the liver canapés under a hot 
broiler for a minute, until they are sizzling. 


Toss the mushrooms over moderately high heat with 


the butter, salt, and pepper. 


Place a canapé under each bird. Surround with the 
mushrooms, and decorate with water cress or parsley. 


Spoon the sauce over the birds, and serve. 


CASSEROLE-ROASTED CHICKEN 

x POULET POELE À L’ESTRAGON 

| Casserole-roasted Chicken with Tarragon] 

For: roasters, large fryers, and capons 

When a chicken is cooked this way, it is trussed, browned in butter and 
oil, then set to roast in a covered casserole with herbs and seasonings. It is a 
lovely method, as the buttery, aromatic steam in the casserole gives the chicken 
great tenderness and flavor. While oven cooking is more even, the top of the 
stove may be used if your casserole is heavy; then the chicken must be turned 
and basted frequently, and the cooking will be a little longer than for oven 
cooking. 


VEGETABLE AND WINE SUGGESTIONS 
They are the same as for a roast chicken, page 240. 


For 4 people 


Estimated roasting time: 1 hour and 10 to 20 minutes 
for a 3-lb. bird. See chart on page 240 for other sizes. 


Preheat oven to 325 degrees. 


r 


250 


A 3-lb., ready-to-cook roast- 
ing chicken 

14 tsp salt 

Pinch of pepper 

2 Tb butter 

3 or 4 sprigs of fresh tarra- 
gon or ¥ tsp of dried tar- 
ragon 


A heavy fireproof casse- 
role just large enough to 
hold the chicken on its 
back and on its side 

a Tb butter 

z Tb oil, more if needed 


3 Tb butter, if necessary 


2 cup sliced onions 

4 cup sliced carrots 

V4 tsp salt 

3 or 4 sprigs of fresh tarra- 
gon or !2 tsp dried tarra- 
gon 


14 tsp salt 

A bulb baster 

Aluminum foil 

A tight-fitting cover for the 
casserole 


CHAPTER SIX: POULTRY 


Season the cavity of the chicken with salt, pepper, and 


1 tablespoon of the butter. Insert the tarragon leaves, 
or sprinkle in dried tarragon. Truss the chicken, page 
237. Dry it thoroughly-and rub the skin with the rest 
of the butter. 


Set the casserole over moderately high heat with the 
butter and oil. When the butter foam has begun to 
subside, lay in the chicken, breast down. Brown for 2 
to 3 minutes, regulating heat so butter is always very 
hot but not burning. Turn the chicken on another 
side, using 2 wooden spoons or a towel. Be sure not 
to break the chicken skin. Continue browning and 
turning the chicken until it is a nice golden color al- 
most all over, particularly on the breast and legs. This 
will take 10 to 15 minutes. Add more oil if necessary 
to keep the bottom of the casserole filmed. 


Remove the chicken. Pour out the browning fat if it 
has burned, and add fresh butter. 


Cook the carrots and onions slowly in the casserole 
for 5 minutes without browning. Add the salt and 
tarragon. 


Salt the chicken. Set it breast up over the vegetables 
and baste it with the butter in the casserole. Lay a 
piece of aluminum foil over the chicken, cover the 
casserole, and reheat it on top of the stove until you 
hear the chicken sizzling. Then place the casserole on 
a rack in the middle level of the preheated oven. 


Roast for 1 hour and 10 to 20 minutes, regulating heat 
so chicken is always making quiet cooking noises. 
Baste once or twice with the butter and juices in the 


CASSEROLE-ROASTED CHICKEN 


Brown tarragon sauce 


2 cups brown chicken stock, 
or I cup canned beef 
bouillon and 1 cup canned 
chicken broth 

1 Tb cornstarch blended 
with 2 Tb Madeira or 
port 

2 Tb fresh minced tarragon 
or parsley 

1 Tb softened butter 


To serve 


Optional but attractive: 10 
to 12 fresh tarragon leaves 
blanched for 30 seconds 
in boiling water then 
rinsed in cold water, and 
dried on paper towels 


(*) AHEAD-OF-TIME NOTE 


25I 


casserole. The chicken is done when its drumsticks 
move in their sockets, and when the last drops drained 
from its vent run clear*yellow. 





Remove the chicken to a serving platter and discard 
trussing strings. 


Add the stock or bouillon and broth to the casserole 
and simmer for 2 minutes, scraping up coagulated 
roasting juices. Then skim off all but a tablespoon of 
fat. Blend in the cornstarch mixture, simmer a minute, 
then raise heat and boil rapidly until sauce is lightly 
thickened. Taste carefully for seasoning, adding more 
tarragon if you feel it necessary. Strain into a warmed 
sauceboat. Stir in the herbs and the enrichment butter. 


Pour a spoonful of sauce over the chicken, and deco- 
rate the breast and legs with optional tarragon leaves. 
Platter may be garnished with sprigs of fresh parsley 
or—if you are serving them—sautéed potatoes and 
broiled tomatoes. 


If the chicken is not to be served for about half an hour, make the sauce 
except for its butter enrichment, and strain it into a saucepan. Return the 
chicken to the casserole. Place aluminum foil over it and set the cover askew. 
Keep the casserole warm over almost simmering water, or in the turned-off 
hot oven, its door ajar. Reheat and butter the sauce just before serving. 





OPTIONAL: 
Farce Duxelles 
{Mushroom Stuffing | 


A chicken will need 10 to 15 minutes more cooking if you fill it with 


this stuffing. 


252 


For a 3-lb. chicken 


34 lb. finely minced fresh 
mushrooms 

x Tb butter 

x Tb oil 

144 Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 


A 10-inch skillet 


The chicken gizzard, peeled 
and minced 

The chopped chicken liver 

1 Tb butter 

A small skillet 


4 cup Madeira or port 


V4 cup dry, white crumbs 
from homemade-type of 
bread 

3 Tb cream cheese 

x Tb softened butter 

12 tsp minced fresh or dried 
tarragon 

2 Tb minced parsley 

14 tsp salt 

Big pinch of pepper 


VARIATION 


CHAPTER SIX: POULTRY 


A handful at a time, twist the mushrooms into a ball 
in the corner of a towel to extract their juice. Sauté 
them in hot butter and oil with the shallots or onions 
for 5 to 8 minutes, until the pieces begin to separate 
from each other. Place them in a mixing bowl. 


Sauté the gizzard for 2 minutes in hot butter. Add the 
liver and sauté 2 minutes more. Add to the mixing 


bowl. 


Pour the wine into the mushroom cooking skillet and 
boil it down rapidly until it has reduced to a spoonful. 
Scrape into the mixing bowl. 


Blend the rest of the ingredients into the mixing 
bowl and season carefully to taste. Let the stuffing 
cool. Pack it loosely into the chicken. Sew or skewer 
the vent and truss the chicken. Then brown and roast 
it as described in the preceding master recipe. 


Poulet en Cocotte Bonne Femme 


[ Casserole-roasted Chicken with Bacon, Onions, and Potatoes] 


This is an all-in-one dish where bacon and vegetables are cooked with the 
chicken and each item takes on a bit of flavor from its neighbors. No other 


CASSEROLE-ROASTED CHICKEN 


253 


vegetables are needed to make up a main course, but you may wish to serve 
broiled tomatoes along with it for color. 


For 4 people 


A ¥-lb. chunk of bacon 

A fireproof casserole for 
cooking the chicken 

1 Tb butter. 


A 3-lb., ready-to-cook roast- 
ing chicken, trussed and 
buttered 


15 to 25 peeled white onions 
about 1 inch in diameter 


x to 1% lbs. “boiling” pota- 
toes or small new potatoes 


3 Tb butter 

Y% tsp salt 

A medium herb bouquet: 4 
parsley sprigs, 1⁄2 bay leaf, 
and % tsp thyme tied in 
washed cheesecloth 

A bulb baster 

Aluminum foil 

A tight-fitting cover for the 
casserole 


Remove the rind and cut the bacon into lardons 
(rectangular strips 14 inch wide and 114 inches long). 


. Simmer for ro minutes in 2 quarts of water. Rinse in 


cold water, and dry. In the casserole, sauté the bacon 
for 2 to 3 minutes in butter until very lightly browned. 
Remove to a side dish, leaving the fat in the casserole. 


Brown the chicken in the hot fat, as described in the 
master recipe on page 249. Remove it to a side dish 
and pour the fat out of the casserole. 


Preheat oven to 325 degrees. 


Drop the onions in boiling, salted water and boil 
slowly for 5 minutes. Drain and set aside. 


Peel the potatoes and trim them into uniform ovals 
about 2 inches long and 1 inch in diameter. Cover 
with cold water, and bring to the boil. Drain immed- 
iately. 


Heat the butter in the casserole until it is foaming. 
Add the drained potatoes and roll them around over 
moderate heat for 2 minutes to evaporate their mois- 
ture; this will prevent their sticking to the casserole. 
Spread them aside, salt the chicken, and place it breast 
up in the casserole. Place the bacon and onions over 
the potatoes, and the herb bouquet. Baste all ingredi- 
ents with the butter in the casserole, lay the aluminum 
foil over the chicken, and cover the casserole. 


Heat the casserole on top of the stove until the con- 
tents are sizzling, then place in the middle level of 
the preheated oven and roast for 1 hour and 10 to 20 
minutes or until the chicken is done, page 239. Baste 
once or twice with the butter and juices in the pan. No 
sauce is necessary. 


254 CHAPTER SIX: POULTRY 





SAUTÉED CHICKEN 


* POULET SAUTE 
[Sautéed Chicken] 


For: frying chickens 


` 


In a true sauté the cut-up chicken is cooked entirely in butter, or butter 
and oil, with seasonings. No liquid comes in contact with it until the very end. 
It is a quick and delicious way to cook chicken, but should be served as soon as 
possible after it is done or it loses the fresh and juicy characteristics of a sauté. 
The fricassees, however, as they cook in a sauce, take well to reheating. 


A NOTE ON DISJOINTING THE CHICKEN 


French chicken is disjointed so that each wing includes a strip from the 
lower part of the breast. The breast minus ribs is cut in two, crosswise. The 
drumsticks are separated from the second joints. This makes 8 good serving 
pieces, plus the back cut in two, crosswise, if you wish to include it. 

American chicken is usually disjointed into 2 drumsticks, 2 second joints, 
the 2 halves of the breast, and the 2 wings with no breast meat attached. So that 
the breasts will cook evenly, slip a knife under the ribs and remove them. Each 
breast half may be chopped in two, crosswise, if you wish. 


WINE AND VEGETABLE SUGGESTIONS 


These are the same as for roast chicken, page 240. 


For 4 to 6 people. 


Total cooking time: 30 to 35 minutes 


Browning the chicken (8 to 10 minutes) 


2¥, to 3 lbs. of cut-up frying Dry each piece of chicken thoroughly. It will not 
chicken brown if it is damp. 


A heavy, 10-inch casserole, Place the casserole or’skillet over moderately high heat 
skillet, or electric skillet with the butter and oil (360 degrees for an electric 

a Tb butter and 1 Tb oil, skillet). When you see that the butter foam has almost 
more if necessary to keep subsided, add as many chicken pieces, skin-side down, 
bottom of pan filmed with as will fit easily in one layer. In 2 to 3 minutes, when 
fat the chicken has browned to a nice golden color on one 


SAUTÉED CHICKEN 


Tongs for turning the 


chicken 


255 


side, turn it to brown on another side. Regulate heat 
so fat is always very hot but not burning. Remove 
browned pieces as they.are done and add fresh ones 
until all pieces have browned. 


Finishing the cooking (26 to 25 minutes) 


Salt and pepper 

Optional: 1 to 2 tsp fresh 
green herbs: thyme, basil, 
and tarragon, or tarragon 
only; or x tsp dried herbs 

2 or 3 Tb butter, if necessary 


Salt and pepper 
A bulb baster 


Brown deglazing sauce 


1 Tb minced shallot or 
green onions 

Optional: 1⁄2 cup dry white 
wine or 3 cup dry white 
vermouth 

34 to 1 cup brown chicken 
stock, canned beef bouil- 
lon, or canned chicken 
broth 

1 to 2 Tb softened butter 

Optional: 1 to 2 Tb minced 
parsley or fresh green 
herbs 


Season the dark meat with salt, pepper, and optional 


herbs. (The wings and breasts are done later, as they 


cook faster.) If the browning fat has burned, pour it 
out of the casserole and add the fresh butter. Place 
over moderate heat (300 degrees for an electric skil- 
let). Add the dark meats, cover the casserole, and 
cook slowly for 8 to 9 minutes. 


Season the white meat, add it to the dark meat, and 


baste the chicken with the butter in the casserole. 
Cover and continue cooking for about 15 minutes, 
turning and basting the chicken 2 or 3 times. 


The meat is done when the fattest part of the drum- 


sticks is tender if pinched and the chicken juices run 
clear yellow when the meat is pricked deeply with a 


fork. 


Remove the chicken to a hot serving platter. Cover 


and keep warm for 2 to 3 minutes while finishing the 
sauce. 


Remove all but 2 or 3 tablespoons of fat from the cas- 
serole. Add the shallots or onions and cook slowly 
for r minute. Pour in the optional wine, and the stock. 
Raise heat and boil rapidly, scraping up coagulated 
sauté juices and reducing liquid to about 4 cup. Cor- 
rect seasoning. Off heat and just before serving, swirl 
in the enrichment butter and optional herbs. 


Arrange around the platter whatever vegetables you 
have chosen. Pour the sauce over the chicken and 


serve. 


256 CHAPTER SIX: POULTRY 


(*) FOR A WAIT UP TO HALF AN HOUR 

Finish the sauce except for its final buttering. Arrange the cooked chicken 
in an enameled, glazed, pyrex, or stainless steel casserole and baste it with the 
sauce. Cover loosely and set over barely simmering water. Just before serving, 
and off heat, tip casserole, add enrichment butter, and baste the chicken with 
the sauce. 
(*) PARTIAL COOKING IN ADVANCE LL 

The chicken may be browned, the dark meat cooked for 8 to 9 minutes, 
and the white meat added and cooked for 5 minutes more. Then set the cas- 
serole aside, uncovered. About 10 to 15 minutes before serving time, cover and 
finish the cooking on top of the stove; or heat the casserole and set it in a pre- 
heated 350-degree oven for 15 to 20 minutes. 


OTHER SAUCES 
Poulet Sauté à la Crème 


[Deglazing Sauce with Cream] 


1 Tb minced shallots or Sauté the chicken as described in the preceding recipe 
green onions and place it on a hot platter. Remove all but 1 table- 
12 cup dry white wine or % spoon of fat from the casserole. Stir in the shallots or 
cup dry white vermouth onions and cook slowly for 1 minute. Then add the 
1 cup whipping cream wine and boil it rapidly down to about 3 tablespoons, 
scraping up coagulated cooking juices. Add the cream 

and boil it down until it has thickened slightly. 


1 to 2 Tb softened butter Correct seasoning. Off heat and just before serving, 
Optional: 1 to 2 Tb minced swirl in the butter and optional herbs. 
parsley or mixed green 


herbs 


Pour the sauce over the chicken. 





Poulet Sauté Chasseur 


[Tomato and Mushroom Sauce} 


Use the same technique as for the veal scallops on page 368, escalopes de 
veau chasseur 


SAUTÉED CHICKEN 257 





VARIATION 
Poulet Sauté aux Herbes de Provence 


[Chicken Sautéed with Herbs and Garlic, Egg Yolk and Butter Sauce] 


Basil, thyme or savory, a pinch of fennel, and a bit of garlic give this sauté 
a fine Provençal flavor that is even more pronounced if your herbs are fresh. 
The sauce is a type of hollandaise, as the herbal, buttery pan juices are beaten 
into egg yolks to make a thick and creamy liaison. Serve this dish with potatoes 
sautéed in butter or potato crêpes, pages 521 or 526, broiled tomatoes and a 


chilled rosé wine. 
For 4 to 6 people 


A heavy- 10-inch fireproof 
casserole, skillet, or elec- 
tric skillet set at 300 de- 
grees 

14 lb. (x stick) butter 

212 to 3 lbs. of cut-up frying 
chicken dried in a towel 

1 tsp thyme or savory 

1 tsp basil 

14 tsp ground fennel 

Salt and pepper 

3 cloves unpeeled garlic 


24 cup dry white wine or 12 
cup dry white vermouth 


2 egg yolks 

1 Tb lemon juice 

1 Tb dry white wine or 
white vermouth 

A small enameled saucepan 

A wire whip 


Optional: 2 or 3 Tb softened 
butter 


Heat the butter until it is foaming, then turn the 
chicken pieces in it for 7 to 8 minutes, not letting them 
color more than a deep yellow. Remove the white 


-meat. Season the dark meat with herbs, salt, and pep- 


per, and add the garlic to the casserole. Cover and 
cook slowly for 8 to 9 minutes. Season the white meat 
and add it to the casserole, basting the chicken with 
the butter. Cook for about 15 minutes, turning and 
basting 2 or 3 times, until the chicken is tender and 
its juices run pale yellow when the meat is pricked 
with a fork. 


When the chicken is done, remove it to a hot platter, 


cover, and keep warm. 


Mash the garlic cloves in the casserole with a spoon, 


then remove the garlic peel. Add the wine and boil it 
down over high heat, scraping up coagulated sauté 
juices until the wine has been reduced by half. 


Beat the egg yolks in the saucepan until they are thick 
and sticky. Beat in the lemon juice and wine. Then 
beat in the casserole liquid, a half-teaspoon at a time 
to make a thick creamy sauce like a hollandaise. 





Beat the sauce over very low heat for 4 to 5 seconds 
to warm and thicken it. Remove from heat and beat in 


258 CHAPTER SIX: POULTRY 


2 Tb fresh minced basil, more butter by tablespoons if you wish. Beat in the 
fresh fennel tops, or pars- herbs, and correct seasoning. Spoon the sauce over the 
ley chicken, and serve. 





CHICKEN FRICASSEE 
For: fryers, roasters, and young stewing chicken 


One frequently runs into chicken recipes labeled sautés which are actually 
fricassees, and others labeled fricassees which are actually stews. The fricassee 
is halfway between the two. No liquid is included in the cooking of a sauté. 
For a stew, the chicken is simmered in liquid from the start of its cooking. 
When chicken is fricasseed, the meat is always cooked first in butter—or butter 
and oil—until its flesh has swelled and stiffened, then the liquid is added. There 
is a subtle but definite difference in taste between the three methods. Fricassees 
can be white, like the following recipe, or brown, like the coq au vin on page 
263. It is an ideal technique for ahead-of-time dishes, as the chicken loses none 
of its essential qualities if it is allowed to cool in its sauce and is then reheated. 


TYPE OF CHICKEN TO USE 


The following recipes are all based on frying chicken. Younger chickens, 
such as broilers, should never be used; their flesh is so soft and tender that it 
dries out and becomes stringy. Older chickens need longer cooking than the 
25 to 30 minutes of simmering required for a fryer. 

Roasting chicken—35 to 45 minutes of simmering 

Young stewing chicken—1!4 hours or more of simmering, or until the 

, flesh is tender when pricked with a fork. 


x FRICASSEE DE POULET A L’ANCIENNE 


[Old-fashioned Chicken Fricassee with Wine-flavored Cream Sauce, 
Onions, and Mushrooms | 


For this traditional Sunday dinner dish, which is not difficult to execute, 
the chicken pieces are turned in hot butter, sprinkled with flour and seasonings, 
then simmered in wine and white stock. The sauce is a reduction of the cooking 
liquid, enriched with cream and egg yolks. Braised onions and mushrooms a ` 
company the chicken. Include also steamed rice or risotto, pages 529 or 532, or 


CHICKEN FRICASSEE 259 


buttered noodles. If you want other vegetables, buttered peas or asparagus tips 


may serve as a garnish. 


$ 


WINE SUGGESTIONS 


Serve a chilled; fairly full-bodied white Burgundy, Côtes du Rhône, or 


Bordeaux-Graves. 


For 4 to 6 people 


Preliminary cooking in butter 


2% to 3 lbs. of cut-up fry- 
ing chicken 


A heavy, ro-inch, fireproof 
casserole or electric skillet 

1 thinly sliced onion, carrot, 
and celery stalk 

4 Tb butter 


Adding the flour 


14 tsp salt 
Y tsp white pepper 
3 Tb flour 


Dry the chicken thoroughly in a towel. 


Cook the vegetables slowly in the butter for about 5 
minutes, or until they are almost tender but not 
browned (260 degrees for an electric skillet). Push 
them to one side. Raise heat slightly (290 degrees), 


and add the chicken. Turn it every minute for 3 or 4 


minutes until the meat has stiffened slightly, without 
coloring to more than a light golden yellow. 


Lower heat (260 for an electric skillet), cover, and 
cook very slowly for 10 minutes, turning the chicken 
once. It should swell slightly, stiffen more, but not 
deepen in color. 


Sprinkle salt, pepper, and flour on all sides of the 
chicken, turning and rolling each piece to coat the 
flour with the cooking butter. Cover and continue 
cooking slowly for 4 minutes, turning it once. 


Simmering in stock and wine 


3 cups boiling white chicken 
stock, white stock, or 
canned chicken bouillon 

1 cup dry white wine or 73 
cup dry white vermouth 

A small herb bouquet: 2 
parsley sprigs, 1⁄4 bay leaf 
and 14 tsp thyme tied in 
washed cheesecloth 


Remove from heat and pour in the boiling liquid, 
shaking casserole to blend the liquid and flour. Add 
the wine, the herb bouquet, and more stock, or water, 
so the liquid just covers the chicken. Bring to the 
simmer. Taste for seasoning, and salt lightly if neces- 
sary. 


260 


Onion and mushroom garniture 


16 to 20 white-braised on- 
ions, page 481 

Y% Ib. fresh mushrooms 
stewed in butter, lemon 
juice, and water, page 511 


The sauce 


2 egg yolks 

1% cup whipping cream 
A 2-quart mixing bowl 
A wire whip 


A wooden spoon 


Salt and white pepper 
Drops of lemon juice 
Pinch of nutmeg 


Final assembly 


A clean casserole 


CHAPTER SIX: POULTRY 





Cover and maintain at a slow simmer for 25 to 30 
minutes (180 to 190 degrees for an electric skillet). 
The chicken is done when the drumsticks are tender 
if pinched andthe chicken juices run clear yellow 
when the meat is pricked with a fork. When done, re- 
move the chicken to a side dish. 


` 


While the chicken is cooking, prepare the onions and 
mushrooms. Add their cooking juices to the chicken 
cooking sauce in the next step. 


Simmer the cooking liquid in the casserole for 2 to 3 
minutes, skimming off fat. Then raise heat and boil 
rapidly, stirring frequently, until the sauce reduces 
and thickens enough to coat a spoon nicely. Correct 
seasoning. You should have 2 to 24 cups. 


Blend the egg yolks and cream in the mixing bowl 
with a wire whip. Continue beating, and add the hot 
sauce by small tablespoonfuls until about a cupful 
has gone in. Beat in the rest of the sauce in a thin 
stream. 


Pour the sauce back into the casserole, or into an 
enameled or stainless steel saucepan (do not use 
aluminum). Set over moderately high heat and, stir- 
ring constantly, reach all over the bottom and sides of 
the casserole, until the sauce comes to a boil. Boil for 1 
minute, stirring. 


Correct seasoning, adding drops of lemon juice to 
taste, and a pinch of nutmeg. Strain the sauce through 
a fine sieve. : 


Arrange the chicken, and the onion and mushrapm 
garniture, in the casserole. Pour the sauce over it. 
(*) Except for reheating, and the final buttering of 


CHICKEN FRICASSEE 


Reheating and serving 


1 to 2 Tb softened butter 


Sprigs of fresh parsley 


VARIATIONS: SAUCES 


261 


the sauce, the dish is now ready and can wait indefi- 
nitely. To prevent a skin from forming over the sauce, 
spoon over it a film of cream, stock, or milk. Set it 


aside uncovered. 


Set casserole over moderate heat and bring to the sim- 
mer. Cover and simmer very slowly for 5 minutes, or 
until the chicken is hot through, basting it frequently 
with the sauce. 


Off heat and just before serving, tilt casserole, add en- 
richment butter, and baste the chicken with the sauce 
until the butter has absorbed into it. 


Serve the chicken from the casserole; or arrange it 


. with the onions and mushrooms on a hot platter, sur- 


rounded with rice or noodles, and covered with the 
sauce. Decorate with sprigs of fresh parsley. 


Using the preceding recipe, you may vary the sauce in a number of ways. 
The egg yolk liaison at the end may be omitted and a cream sauce substituted; 
just reduce the cooking liquid until it is quite thick, then simmer it slowly 
while thinning it out with spoonfuls of heavy cream until it is the consistency 


you wish it to be. Here are some other ideas: 





VARIATIONS 


Fricassée de Poulet a l’Indienne 


[Curry Sauce | 


1 to 2 Tb fragrant curry 
powder 


After the chicken has had its preliminary turning of 5 
minutes in butter, blend in the curry powder. Cover, 
and proceed with the 10-minute cooking period. Then 
continue with the recipe. 


262 CHAPTER SIX: POULTRY 


NN $$ 


Fricassée de Poulet au Paprika 


[Paprika Sauce | 


1% Tb fresh-smelling and After the chicken has had its preliminary turning of 
fragrant paprika 5 minutes in butter, blend in the paprika. Cover, and 
proceed with ‘they 10-minute cooking period. Then 

continue with the recipe. 


1, Tb more paprika, if nec- After completing the sauce, stir in more paprika if 
essary the sauce needs color. It should be a creamy pink. 





Fricassée de Poulet à l’Estragon 


[Tarragon Sauce] 


4 or 5 sprigs fresh tarragon Add the tarragon to the wine and stock for the sim- 
or 2 tsp dried tarragon mering of the chicken. 


2 Tb fresh minced tarragon Stir fresh tarragon or parsley into the finished sauce. 
or parsley | 


FONDUE DE POULET À LA CRÈME 


[Chicken Simmered with Cream and Onions] 


In this rich and delectable dish, the chicken is cooked in butter and onions, 
then simmered with wine and heavy cream. Serve it with steamed rice or 
risotto, page 532, buttered green peas or baked cucumbers, page 499, and a 
fairly full-bodied white Burgundy or white Bordeaux-Graves. 

For 4 to 6 people 


2/2 to 3 lbs. of cut-up frying Dry the chicken thoroughly. Turn it in hot butter for 


chicken 4 to 5 minutes, until the meat has stiffened slightly 
3 Th butter but has not browned. Remove it to a side dish. 
A heavy, 10-inch, fireproof : 

casserole 


172 cups thinly sliced yellow Stir the onions into the butter in the pan..Cover and 
onions cook very slowly for 5 minutes, or until the onions 
are fairly tender but not browned. 


CHICKEN FRICASSEE 


12 tsp salt 

V8 tsp white pepper 

Y tsp curry powder 

13 cup cognac, Calvados, 
Madeira, or port; or 3⁄4 
cup dry white wine, or 4 
cup dry white vermouth 


3 cups whipping cream 
brought to the boil in a 
small saucepan 


Salt and white pepper 
Drops of lemon juice 
3 to 4 Tb whipping cream 


Sprigs of fresh parsley 


COQ AU VIN 


263 


Return the chicken to the casserole, cover and cook 
slowly for 10 minutes until it swells slightly and 
stiffens, but does not brown. Turn it once during this 
period. 


Season the chicken with salt, pepper, and curry pow- 


der. Pour in the spirits or wine, raise heat, and boil 


rapidly until the liquid has almost entirely evaporated. 


Pour on the hot cream, bring to the simmer, baste 
the chicken, and cover the casserole. Maintain at the 
barest simmer for 30 to 35 minutes, or until the 
chicken is tender and its juices run a clear yellow 


‘when the meat is pricked with a fork. The cream may 


look slightly curdled, but will be smoothed out later. 


Remove the chicken to a hot platter, cover, and keep 
warm for 5 minutes while finishing the sauce. 


Skim fat off the sauce, then boil it rapidly, stirring, 
until it reduces enough to coat the spoon lightly. Cor- 
rect seasoning, adding lemon juice to taste. Off heat, 
beat in additional cream by spoonfuls to smooth out 
the sauce. 


Pour the sauce over the chicken, decorate with parsley, 
and serve. 


[Chicken in Red Wine with Onions, Mushrooms, and Bacon] 


This popular dish may be called coq au Chambertin, coq au riesling, or 
cog au whatever wine you use for its cooking. It is made with either white or 
red wine, but the red is more characteristic. In France it is usually accompanied 
only by parsley potatoes; buttered green peas could be included if you wish a 


264 


CHAPTER SIX: POULTRY 


green vegetable. Serve with it a young, full-bodied red Burgundy, Beaujolais, 


or Côtes du Rhône. 


For 4 to 6 people 


A 3- to 4-ounce chunk of 
lean bacon 


A heavy, ro-inch, fireproof 
casserole or an electric 
skillet 

2 Tb butter 


2% to 3 lbs. cut-up frying 
chicken 


14 tsp salt 
Vs tsp pepper 


l4 cup cognac 


3 cups young, full-bodied 
red wine such as Bur- 
gundy, Beaujolais, Côtes 
du Rhône, or Chianti 

x to 2 cups brown chicken 
stock, brown stock, or 
canned. beef bouillon 

V2 Tb tomato paste 

2 cloves mashed garlic 

14 tsp thyme 

1 bay leaf 


12 to 24 brown-braised on- 
ions, page 483 

1, lb. sautéed mushrooms, 
page 513 


Remove the rind and cut the bacon into lardons 
(rectangles 1⁄4 inch across and 1 inch long). Simmer 
for 10 minutes in 2 quarts of water. Rinse in cold 


EN 
water. Dry. 


Sauté the bacon slowly in hot butter until it is very 
lightly browned (temperature of 260 degrees for an 
electric skillet). Remove to a side dish. 


Dry the chicken thoroughly. Brown it in the hot fat 


in the casserole (360 degrees for the electric skillet). 


Season the chicken. Return the bacon to the casserole 
with the chicken. Cover and cook slowly (300 de- 
grees) for 10 minutes, turning the chicken once. 


Uncover, and pour in the cognac. Averting your 
face, ignite the cognac with a lighted match. Shake 
the casserole back and forth for several seconds until 
the flames subside. 


Pour the wine into the casserole. Add just enough 
stock or bouillon to cover the chicken. Stir in the 
tomato paste, garlic, and herbs. Bring to the simmer. 
Cover and simmer slowly for 25 to 30 minutes, or un- 
til the chicken is tender and its juices run a clear yel- 
low when the meat is pricked with a fork. Remove the 
chicken to a side dish. 


While the chicken is cooking, prepare the onions and 


mushrooms. 
* 


CHICKEN FRICASSEE 


Salt and pepper 


3 Tb flour 

2 Tb softened butter 
A saucer 

A rubber spatula 

A wire whip 


Sprigs of fresh parsley 


265 


Simmer the chicken cooking liquid in the casserole 
for a minute or two, skimming off fat. Then raise 
heat and boil rapidly, reducing the liquid to about 


_ 24% cups. Correct seasoning. Remove from heat, and 


discard bay leaf. 


‘ Blend the butter and flour together into a smooth 


paste (beurre manié). Beat the paste into the hot 
liquid with a wire whip. Bring to the simmer, stir- 
ring, and simmer for a minute or two. The sauce 
should be thick enough to coat a spoon lightly. 


Arrange the chicken in the casserole, place the mush- 
rooms and onions around it, and baste with the sauce. 
(*) If the dish is not to be served immediately, film 
the top of the sauce with stock or dot with small 
pieces of butter. Set aside uncovered. It can now wait 
indefinitely. 


Shortly before serving, bring to the simmer, basting 
the chicken with the sauce. Cover and simmer slowly 
for 4 to 5 minutes, until the chicken is hot through. 


Serve from the casserole, or arrange on a hot platter. 
Decorate with sprigs of parsley. 


BROILED CHICKEN 


POULETS GRILLES A LA DIABLE 
[Chicken Broiled with Mustard, Herbs, and Bread Crumbs] 


Here is a fine method for broiled chicken which is good either hot or 
cold. The chicken is partially cooked under the broiler, then smeared with 
mustard and herbs, rolled in fresh bread crumbs, and returned to the broiler to 
brown and finish cooking. A practical attribute is that it can be almost entirely 
cooked ahead of time, set aside or refrigerated, and then finished off in the 
oven. With the mustard dip, a sauce is not a necessity. But if you want one, 
serve melted butter mixed with lemon juice and minced herbs, or sauce diable 


266 


CHAPTER SIX: POULTRY 


(herbal brown sauce with shallots and wine), page 71. Baked, whole tomatoes 
and green beans would go well with it, and a chilled rosé wine. 


For 4 to 8 people 


Two ready-to-cook, 2/2-Ib. 
broilers, halved or quar- 
tered 

A saucepan containing 6 Tb 
melted butter and 2 Tb 
oil 

A pastry brush 

A broiling pan minus rack 

Salt 


6 Tb prepared mustard of 
the strong Dijon type 

3 Tb finely minced shallots 
or green onions 

12 tsp thyme, basil, or tarra- 
gon 

Ye tsp pepper 

Pinch of cayenne pepper 


4 cups fresh, white crumbs 
from homemade-type of 
bread/(make the crumbs 
in ar electric blender, 3 or 
4 sli¢es of bread at a time) 





A broiling pan with rack 
The rest of the basting fat 


Preheat oven broiler to moderately hot. 


Dry the chicken thoroughly, paint it with butter and 
oil, and arrange it skin-side down in the bottom of 
the broiling pan. Place it so that the surface of the 
chicken is 5 to 6 inches from the hot broiling element 
and broil 10 minutes on each side, basting every 5 
minutes. The chicken should be very lightly browned. 
Salt it lightly. 


Blend the mustard with the shallots or onions, herbs, 
and seasonings in a bowl. Drop by drop, beat in half 

thE Basting fat to make a mayonnaiselike cream. Re- 
serve the rest of the basting fat for later. Paint the 
chicken pieces with the mustard mixture. 


Pour the crumbs into a big plate, then roll the chicken 
in the crumbs, patting them on so they will adhere. 


Arrange the chicken pieces skin-side down on the 
rack in the broiling pan and dribble half the remain- 
ing basting fat over them. Brown slowly for 10 min- 
utes under a moderately hot broiler. Turn, baste with 
the last of the fat, and brown 10 minutes more on the 
other side. The chicken is done when the thickest 
part of the drumstick is tender, and, when the meat is 
pricked with a fork, the juices run clear yellow. 


Transfer to a hot platter and serve. 


CHICKEN BREASTS 267 


(*) AHEAD-OF-TIME NOTES 

If you wish to do most of the cooking in advance, brown the crumbed 
chicken under the broiler for 5 minutes only dn, each side. It then may be 
finished off several hours later, placed in a preheated 350-degree oven for 20 to 
30 minutes. Do not allow it to overcook. 





CHICKEN BREASTS 
Suprémes de Volaille 


Breast of chicken when it is removed raw from one side of the bird in a 
skinless, boneless piece is called a supréme. Each chicken possesses two of 
them. If the upper part of the wing is left on, the supréme becomes a côtelette. 
The breast of a cooked chicken is not a supréme, but a blanc de poulet, or white 
meat of chicken. A suprême may be poached in butter in a covered casserole 
à blanc, or sautéed or broiled with butter à ‘brun. It is never, in good French 
cooking, simmered in a liquid. The supréme is an easy morsel to cook, but at- 
tention must be exercised to be sure it is not overdone, as even a minute too 
much can toughen the meat and make it dry. The flesh of a perfectly cooked 
supréme is white with the faintest pinky blush, its juices run clear yellow, and 
it is definitely juicy. Its point of doneness is easily determined as it cooks. 
Press the top of it with your finger; if it is still soft and yields slightly to the 
touch, it is not yet done. As soon as the flesh springs back with gentle resilience, 
it is ready. If there is no springiness, it is overcooked. As a suprême cooks in 
only 6 to 8 minutes and may be served very simply, it can make an exquisite 
quick meal. 


PREPARING THE SUPREMES FOR COOKING 


Choose whole or half breasts from a 2⁄4- to 3-lb. fryer. Slip your fingers 
between skin and flesh, and pull off the skin. Then cut against the ridge of the 
breastbone to loosen the flesh from the bone. Disjoint the wing where it joins 
the carcass and continue down along the rib cage, pulling flesh from bone as 
you cut until the meat from one side of the breast separates from the bone in 
one piece. Remove the wing. Cut and pull out the white tendon that runs about 
two thirds of the way down the under side of the meat. Trim off any jagged 
edges and flatten the saprémes lightly with the side of a heavy knife. They are 
now ready for cooking. If they are not to be used immediately, wrap in waxed 


paper and refrigerate. 


268 


CHAPTER SIX: POULTRY 





x SUPREMES DE VOLAILLE A BLANC 
[ Breast of Chicken with Cream] 


Serve these with buttered asparagus tips, green peas, artichoke hearts, or 


creamed spinach, a good risotto cooked in chicken stock, and a bottle of chilled 


white Burgundy or Traminer. 


For 4 people 


4 suprémes (boned breasts 
from two fryers; see direc- 
tions in paragraph preced- 
ing recipe) 

12 tsp lemon juice 

14 tsp salt 

Big pinch white pepper 

A heavy, covered, fireproof 
casserole about 10 inches 
in diameter 

A round of waxed paper 10 
inches in diameter and 
buttered on one side 

4 Tb butter 


For the sauce: 


14 cup white or brown stock 
or canned beef bouillon 

Y cup port, Madeira, or dry 
white vermouth 

‘x cup whipping cream 

Salt and pepper 

Lemon juice as needed 

2 Tb fresh minced parsley 


VARIATIONS 


Suprémes de Volaille Archiduc 


» 


IN 


Preheat oven to 400 degrees. 


Rub the suprémes with drops of lemon juice and 


sprinkle lightly with salt and pepper. Heat the butter 
in the casserole until it is foaming. Quickly roll the 
suprémes in the butter, lay the buttered paper over 
them, cover casserole and place in hot oven. After 6 
minutes, press top of suprémes with your finger. If 
still soft, return to oven for a moment or two. When 
the meat is springy to the touch it is done. Remove 
the suprémes to a warm platter and cover while mak- 
ing the sauce (2 to 3 minutes). 


Pour the stock or bouillon and wine into the casserole 
with the cooking butter and boil down quickly over 
high heat until liquid is syrupy. Stir in the cream and 
boil down again over high heat until cream has thick- 
ened slightly. Off heat, taste carefully for seasoning, 
and add drops of lemon juice to taste. Pour the sauce 
over the suprémes, sprinkle with parsley, and serve 
at once. 


[a 


[Chicken Breasts with Paprika, Onions, and Cream] 


This is a delicious combination, the onions giving the chicken and the 
sauce a subtle flavor, while the paprika lends fragrance and rosiness to thé — 


finished dish. 


CHICKEN BREASTS 


73 cup finely minced white 
onions 

5 Tb butter 

x Tb fragrant red paprika 

V8 tsp salt à 


4 suprémes and the sauce 
ingredients in the preced- 
ing master recipe 


269 





Drop the minced onions into boiling water for 1 
minute. Drain, run cold water over them, and drain 
again. Cook the onions with the salt, paprika, and 
butter in the covered casserole for about 10 minutes 
over very low heat until the onions are tender and 
translucent, but not browned. 


Following the master recipe, cook the suprémes in the 


onions, paprika, and butter. Remove when done, 
leaving the onions in the casserole. Complete the 
sauce, also as described in the master recipe. 





Suprémes de Volaille a l’Ecossaise 


[Chicken Breasts with Diced Aromatic Vegetables and Cream] 


The following vegetables 
cut into neat 14¢-inch 
cubes, making 23 to % 
cup in all: 

x medium carrot 
1 to 2 tender celery stalks 
1 medium white onion 


V8 tsp salt 

5 Tb butter 

4 suprêmes and the sauce 
ingredients in the master 
recipe 


Çook the diced vegetables slowly with the salt and 
butter for about 10 minutes in the covered casserole 
until tender, but not browned. 


Following the master recipe, cook the suprémes in the 
vegetables and butter. Remove them when done, leav- 
ing the vegetables in the casserole. Complete the 
sauce, as described in the master recipe. 


Suprémes de Volaille aux Champignons 


[Chicken Breasts with Mushrooms and Cream] 


5 Tb butter 

1 Tb minced 
green onion 

14 lb. diced or sliced fresh 
mushrooms 

w% tsp salt 


shallot or 


Heat the butter in the casserole over moderate heat 


until foaming. Stir in the minced shallots or green 
onion and sauté a moment without browning. Then 
stir in the mushrooms and sauté lightly for a minute 
or two without browning. Sprinkle with salt. 


# 


270 


4 suprémes and the sauce 
ingrédients in the master 
recipe 


CHAPTER SIX: POULTRY 


Following the master recipe, cook the suprémes in 
the mushrooms and butter. Remove when done, leav- 
ing the mushrooms in the casserole. Complete the 
sauce, as described in the master recipe. 

\ >> a 


* SUPREMES DE VOLAILLE À BRUN 
[Chicken Breasts Sautéed in Butter] 


Here the chicken breasts are lightly dusted with flour and are sautéed in 
clarified butter. (Ordinary butter will burn and form black specks on the 
suprémes. Clarified butter may be heated to a higher temperature before burn- 


ing.) A good accompaniment for this dish would be grilled or stuffed to- 


matoes, buttered green peas or beans, and potato balls sautéed in butter. Serve 
with it a red Bordeaux-Médoc. 


For 4 people 


4 suprémes (boned breasts 
from 2 fryers), page 267 

14 tsp salt 

Big pinch of pepper 

1 cup flour spread on an 8- 
inch plate 


An 8- to 9-inch skillet 

6 to § Tb clarified butter, 
page 15 (note that you 
will need 1⁄4 cup more for 
your sauce) 


A hot platter 


Just before sautéing, sprinkle the suprémes with salt 
and pepper, roll them in the flour, and shake off ex- 
cess flour. 


Pour clarified butter into skillet to a depth of about 


146 inch. Set over moderately high heat. When the 
butter begins to deepen in color very slightly, put in 
the suprémes. Regulate heat so butter is always hot 
but does not turn more than a deep yellow. After 3 
minutes, turn the suprémes and sauté on the other 
side. In two minutes, press tops of suprémes with 
your finger. As soon as they are springy to the touch, 
they are done. Remove to a hot platter, leaving the 
butter in the skillet. 


Brown Butter Sauce (Beurre Noisette) 


4 Tb clarified butter 
3 Tb minced parsley 
1 Tb lemon juice 


Add additional clarified butter to skillet and set over 
moderately high heat until the butter has turned a 
very light golden brown (a minute or two). Immed- 
iately remove from heat, sir in parsley and lemon juice,. 
and taste for. seasoning. Pour over the suprémes and 
serve. 


CHICKEN BREASTS 


271 





VARIATIONS 


Brown Deglazing Sauce with Wine iy 


1 Tb minced shallot or 
green onion 

14 cup port or Madeira 

7; cup brown stock or 
canned beef bouillon 

2 Tb minced parsley 


After removing the sautéed suprémes, stir minced 
shallot or onion into skillet and sauté a moment. Then 
pour in the wine and stock or bouillon and boil down 
rapidly over high heat until liquid is lightly syrupy. 
Pour over the suprémes, sprinkle with parsley, and 
serve. 


Deglazing Sauce with Truffles 


x minced canned truffle and 
the juice from its can 

Ingredients for the preced- 
ing brown deglazing | 
sauce minus the parsley 


After sautéing the shallots or onions, as in the pre- 
ceding master recipe, add the wine, stock or bouillon, 
and the truffle and its juice. Boil down liquid until 
syrupy, and pour over the suprémes. 


Suprémes de Volaille à la Milanaise 


[Chicken Breasts Rolled in Parmesan and Fresh Bread Crumbs] 


4 suprémes (boned breasts 
from two fryers), page 267 

14 tsp salt 

Big pinch of pepper 

1 cup flour spread on an 8- 
inch plate 

1 egg, Y% tsp salt, and 1⁄2 tsp 
olive oil beaten together in 
an 8-inch soup plate 

14 cup freshly grated Parme- 
san cheese and ! cup fine, 
white, fresh bread crumbs 
mixed together in an 8- 


inch dish 


Ingredients for brown but- 
ter sauce, master recipe 


Season the suprémes with salt and pepper. One at a 
time, roll them in the flour and shake off excess. Dip 
in beaten egg. Then roll in the cheese and bread 
crumbs, patting them in place with the flat of a knife. 
Lay the suprémes on waxed paper and allow cheese 
and bread crumbs to set for 10 to 15 minutes or several 
hours. 


Sauté on both sides in clarified butter until resilient to 
the pressure of your finger. Serve with brown butter 
sauce as described in the master recipe. 


272 CHAPTER SIX: POULTRY 


DUCK 
Canard — Caneton.. 


Only the genuine duckling or caneton—a bird under 6 months old—is 
good for roasting. Fortunately that is the only kind of duck you are liable to 
find in any American market. It generally weighs 4⁄4 to 5⁄4 pounds ready to 
cook, has been beautifully plucked and cleaned, and is usually frozen, a state 
to which it takes much better than chicken. It needs only to be thawed out in 
the refrigerator or in a basin of cold, running water, and it is ready for cooking. 


A NOTE ON FRENCH DUCKS 


While American commercially raised birds are usually of one variety— 
the White Pekin—French ducks are of various breeds. These are: the nantais, 
which rarely weighs over 3 pounds and is the most common table duckling; 
the rouennais, famous as pressed duck; and the canard de barbarie, often older 
and always larger, which is used for braising. 


PREPARING A DUCK FOR ROASTING 


Pull out all loose fat from the cavity and from around the neck. To make 
the carving of the breast meat easier, cut out the wishbone. The lower part of 
the wing is mostly bone; chop it off at the elbow and add it to the stock pot. 
Be sure the fat glands on the back at the base of the tail have been removed; 
dig out any yellow residue that may remain, and rub the area with salt and 
lemon juice. To help the layer of subcutaneous duck fat to escape during cook- 
ing, prick the skin at 14-inch intervals along the thighs, the back, and the lower 

‘part of the breast. After seasoning the cavity, or stuffing it, sew or skewer the 
legs, wings, and neck skin to the body so the bird will make a neat appearance 
on the table; see the illustrated directions for trussing a chicken on page 237; 
which may be adapted for duck. 


DUCK STOCK 
The neck, heart, gizzard, and lower wings may be used for the making of 
a duck stock. Follow the same method as for chicken stock, page 236. 


CARVING NOTE 


Duck has far more carcass and far less meat than a chicken of the samé ` 
weight; a 44-pound duck will serve only 4 or 5 people. The French method 


DUCK 273 


of carving is to make as many thin slices of breast meat as possible, 4 to 6 per 
side, as follows: After the second joints and drumsticks have been removed, the 
duck is turned on its side, its tail facing the carvers Thin slices of meat are cut 
diagonally starting from the lower part of the breast nearest the tail and run- 
ning toward the breastbone. The same system is used for the other side, cutting 
in the opposite direction. 


ROASTING TIMETABLE 


French taste is for ducks roasted to.4 medium rare—the juices run slightly 
rosy when the meat is pricked. If the duck is to be served well done, its juices 
should run clear yellow. Overcooked duck meat is brown, dry, and disappoint- 
ing. 

The following table is for unstuffed, unchilled duck. Add 20 to 30 minutes 
to the times listed if the duck is stuffed. 


NUMBER OF 
READY-TO-COOK PEOPLE MEDIUM RARE WELL DONE 
WEIGHT SERVED Oven at 350 degrees 
3% lbs. 30r4 65 to 70 minutes 1 hour and 15 to 25 minutes 
4% lbs. 4 1 hour and 15 to 20 minutes 1 hour and 25 to 35 minutes 
512 lbs. 5 or 6 1 hour and 25 to 30 minutes 1 hour and 35 to 40 minutes 


VEGETABLE SUGGESTIONS 


Caneton aux petits pois, duckling with green peas, is one of the favorite 
French combinations, especially in the spring. Other vegetable suggestions are 
broccoli or Brussels sprouts, or braised lettuce, celery, celeriac, onions, or turnips. 
Among starchy vegetables, if you wish to serve one, are braised or puréed chest- 
nuts, potatoes mashed with celery root or turnips, or a purée of lentils or navy 
beans. 


WINE SUGGESTIONS 


Serve full red wine, such as Burgundy, Côtes du Rhône, Chateauneuf-du- 
Pape, or Bordeaux-St. Emilion. Or a chilled Alsatian Traminer. 


274 


CHAPTER SIX: POULTRY 





x CANETON ROTI 


[Roast Duckling] 
For 5 to 6 people 


A 5'-lb. 
duckling 

12 tsp salt 

78 tsp pepper 

A pinch of thyme or sage 

A small sliced onion 


ready-to-cook 


A shallow roasting pan just 
large enough to hold the 
duck easily 

1 medium sliced carrot 

1 medium sliced onion 


A bulb baster 


14 tsp salt 


Estimated roasting time: 1 hour and 20 to 40 minutes 
D + es 


Preheat oven to 425 degrees. 


Season the inside of the duck with salt, pepper, herbs, 
and the sliced onion. Secure the legs, wings, and neck 
skin to the body. Prick the skin around the thighs, 
back, and lower breast. Dry the duck thoroughly. 


Place the duck breast up in the roasting pan, strew 
the vegetables around it, and set it in the middle 
level of the oven for 15 minutes to brown lightly. 


Reduce oven to 350 degrees, and turn the duck on its 
side. Regulate heat so duck is always making cooking 
noises but fat is not burning. Remove accumulated 
fat occasionally (a bulb baster will suck it up easily). 
Basting is not necessary. 


About 30 minutes later, or about halfway through, 
turn the duck on its other side. 


Fifteen minutes before the end of the estimated roast- 


ing time, salt the duck and turn it breast up. 


The duck is done to a medium rare if the juices from 
the fattest part of the thigh or drumstick run faintly 
rosy when the meat is pricked, and when the duck is 
lifted and drained, the last drops of juice from the 
vent are a pale rose. The duck is well done when the 
juices run pale yellow. 


When done, discard trussing strings, and place the 
duck on a serving platter. Set in turned-off oven and. 
leave the door open while preparing the sauce, which 
will take 3 to 4 minutes. 


DUCK 275 


172 to 2 cups brown duck Tilt the roasting pan and spoon out all but 1 table- 
stock, beef stock, or spoon of fat. Add the stock or bouillon and boil rap- 
canned beef bouillon idly, scraping up coagulated roasting juices, and crush- 

Optional: 3 or 4 Tb port ' ing the vegetables, until liquid is reduced at least by 

half. Correct seasoning. Add optional wine and sim- 
_ mer a minute to evaporate its alcohol. 


1 to 2 Tb softened butter Off heat and just before serving, swirl the butter into 
the sauce and strain it into a sauceboat. Pour a bit of 
sauce over the duck, and serve. 

(*) AHEAD-OF-TIME NOTE 


Roast duck may wait in the turned-off hot oven, its door ajar, for about 
30 minutes before serving. 


SPIT ROASTING 


Duck does very well indeed on a rotary spit. Follow the directions for 
spit-roasted chicken on page 242, but omit the bacon wrapping. No basting is 
necessary. Roasting time is the same as for oven roasting on the chart, page 273. 


VARIATIONS 

Caneton Rôti a l Alsacienne 

[Roast Duck with Sausage and Apple Stuffing] 

Apples and duck are a fine combination, and sausages make it an even 
better one. The platter may be garnished with more apples and sausages if you 
wish, braised onions, and sautéed potatoes or potato crépes. A chilled Alsatian 


Traminer would go well with it, or hard cider. 
For 5 or 6 people 


Estimated roasting time: 1 hour and 45 to 60 minutes 


Sausage and apple stuffing 


14 lb. pork link sausages Sauté the sausages in a skillet until they are lightly 
browned. Drain them. Mash them roughly with a fork 
in a mixing bowl. 


4 or 5 crisp eating apples Peel, quarter, and core the apples. Cut the quarters 
into 2 or 3 lengthwise segments. Sauté them, a few at 


276 CHAPTER SIX: POULTRY 


a time, in the hot sausage fat in the skillet. They 
should be very lightly browned, and almost tender, 
but still retain their shape. 





1 Tb sugar Place them on a platter and sprinkle with the season- 

14 tsp cinnamon ings and cognac. 

1⁄4 tsp salt 

1⁄4 tsp sage my 

2 Tb cognac 

14 cup port Pour the fat out of the skillet. Add the wine and stock 

14 cup stock or canned beef or bouillon and boil rapidly until liquid has reduced to 
bouillon 2 or 3 tablespoons. Pour it over the cooked sausages. 


When both apples and sausages have cooled, mix 
them delicately together. Stuff loosely into the duck. 
Sew or skewer the vent, truss the duck, and roast it 
according to the preceding master recipe. 


K  Caneton al’Orange 
[Roast Duck with Orange Sauce] 


One of the most well known of all the duck dishes, caneton à lorange, is 
roast duck decorated with fresh orange segments and accompanied by an 
orange-flavored brown sauce. Its most important element is its sauce—a rich, 
strong, meaty, duck essence darkened with caramel, flavored with wine and 
orange peel, and given a light liaison of arrowroot. You can and should pre- 
, pare the sauce well ahead of time so that when the duck is roasted, the dish 
is within 2 to 3 minutes of being done. 


VEGETABLE AND WINE SUGGESTIONS 


Nothing should interfere with the flavors of the duck, the sauce, and the 
oranges. Sautéed or shoestring potatoes, or homemade potato chips are your 
best choice. Serve a good red Bordeaux-Médoc, or a chilled white Burgundy— 
Meursault, Montrachet, or Corton-Charlemagne.: 


For 5 or 6 people 

Note: Under the ingredients needed for the sauce are 2 cups of excellent 
duck stock. This should be prepared ahead of time, as it must simmer about > ` 
hours. 


DUCK 


277 


Blanching the orange peel 


4 brightly colored navel 
oranges 


Roasting the duck 


A 5%4-lb.  ready-to-cook 
duckling 

12 tsp salt 

Pinch of pepper 

The sauce base 

A 4-cup saucepan 

3 Tb granulated sugar 

14 cup red wine vinegar 

2 cups strong, brown duck 
stock (follow directions 
for brown chicken stock, 
page 236, using duck gib- 
lets instead of chicken 
giblets) 

2 Tb arrowroot blended 
with 3 Tb port or Madeira 

The rest of the blanched 
orange peel 


The orange segments 


The 4 oranges, skinned 


Final assembly 


14 cup port or Madeira 


The prepared sauce base 
2 or 3 Tb good orange 
liqueur 


Remove the orange part of the skin in strips with a 
vegetable peeler. Cut iñto julienne (small strips 46 
inch wide and 144 inches long). Simmer for 15 min- 
utes in a quart of water. Drain. Pat dry in paper 
towels. 


Season the duck cavity with salt and pepper, add a 
third of the prepared orange peel, and truss the duck. 
Roast it according to the master recipe, page 274. 


While the duck is roasting, make a sweet-and-sour 
caramel coloring as follows: Boil the sugar and vine- 
gar over moderately high heat for several minutes un- 
til the mixture has turned into a mahogany-brown 
syrup. Immediately remove from heat and pour in 14 
cup of the duck stock. Simmer for a minute, stirring, 
to dissolve the caramel. Then add the rest of the stock, 
beat in the arrowroot mixture, and stir in the orange 
peel. Simmer for 3 to 4 minutes or until the sauce is 
clear, limpid, and lightly thickened. Correct seasoning, 
and set aside. 


Cut the 4 oranges into neat, skinless segments and 
place in a covered dish. 


When the duck is done, discard trussing strings, and 
set it on a platter. Place it in the turned-off hot oven, 
leaving the door ajar. 





Remove as much fat as you can from the roasting pan. 
Add the wine and boil it down rapidly, scraping up 
coagulated roasting juices and reducing the liquid to 
2 or 3 tablespoons. 





Strain the wine reduction into the sauce base and 
bring to the simmer. Stir in the orange liqueur by 
spoonfuls, tasting. The sauce should have a pleasant 


278 


Drops of orange bitters or 
lemon juice 


2 Tb softened butter 


CHAPTER SIX: POULTRY 


orange flavor but not be too sweet. Add drops of 
orange bitters or lemon juice as a corrective. 


Just before serving, and off heat, swirl in the butter 


enrichment, and pour the sauce into a warmed sauce- 
tas 
boat. $ 5 


Place a line of orange segments over the length of the 


duck and heap the rest at the two ends of the platter. 
Spoon a bit of sauce with peel over the duck, and 
serve. 





VARIATIONS 


Caneton aux Cerises 


Caneton Montmorency 
[Roast Duck with Cherries] 


Cherries or peaches are also good as a garnish for roast duck. Roast the 
bird as directed in the master recipe, page 274. Make the caramel-colored and 
arrowroot-thickened sauce described for the preceding caneton à l'orange, 
omitting the orange peel and orange liqueur. The fruit is heated in the sauce 


as follows: 


36 to 48 red or black pitted 
cherries (if frozen, thaw 
and drain) 

A 4-cup enameled saucepan 

1 Tb lemon juice 

3 Tb port or cognac 

2 to 3 Tb granulated sugar 


z Tb softened butter 


Toss the cherries in the saucepan with the lemon juice, 
port or cognac, and sugar. Let them soak for at least 
20 to 30 minutes. 


After the duck has roasted, and the pan juices have 


been deglazed with wine and added to the sauce, pour 
the sauce into the cherries. Heat to below the simmer 
for 3 to 4 minutes to poach the cherries (if liquid 
simmers, the fruit may shrivel). Remove the cherries 
with a slotted spoon and distribute them over and 


around the duck. 


Boil the sauce rapidly to reduce and thicken it slightly. 


Correct seasoning. Off heat, swirl in the enrichment. 

. JE r 
butter. Pour the sauce into a warmed bowl, spoon 
a bit over the duck, and serve. 


DUCK 


279 





Caneton aux Pêches 


[Roast Duck with Peaches] 


3 large or 6 small, firm, ripe, 
freestone 
drained canned peaches, 
minus the sugar below) 

2 Tb lemon juice 

2 to 3 Tb port or cognac 

2 to 3 Tb granulated sugar 


peaches (or. 





If using fresh peaches, peel and halve them not more 
than 30 minutes before serving so they will not dis- 


‘color. Arrange the peaches in a fireproof dish and 


baste them with the liquids and sugar. Baste several 
times more before using. 


After the duck has roasted and the pan juices have 
been deglazed with wine and added to the sauce, pour 
the sauce over the peaches. Proceed as for the pre- 
ceding duck with cherries recipe. 


x CANETON POELE AUX NAVETS 
| Casserole-roasted Duck with Turnips] 


In casserole roasting, the duck is browned on all sides, then set to roast 
in a covered casserole. Cooked in its own steam, the duck’s flesh becomes 
wonderfully tender, and the layer of subcutaneous fat is even more effectively 
dissolved than by roasting. The turnips, which finish their cooking with the 
duck absorbing cooking juices, are particularly succulent. No other vegetable 
is necessary, but you could serve green peas or broccoli. A red Bordeaux, 
Beaujolais, or Côtes du Rhône would be the choice of wines. 


For 5 to 6 people. 


A 5%-lb. 
duckling 

12 tsp salt 

78 tsp pepper 

A heavy, oval casserole just 
large enough to hold the 
duck easily 

3 Tb rendered fresh pork 


fat or cooking oil 


ready-to-cook 


Estimated roasting time: 1 hour and 20 to 40 minutes: 
Preheat oven to 325 degrees. 


Season the inside of the duck with salt and pepper, 
truss it, prick the skin around the thighs, back, and 
lower part of the breast. Dry it thoroughly. Brown it 
slowly on all sides in hot fat in the casserole—as for 
browning a chicken, page 249. 


280 


12 tsp salt 

A medium herb bouquet: 4 
parsley sprigs, 2 bay leaf, 
and !4 tsp thyme tied in 
washed cheesecloth 


2 lbs. firm, crisp, white or 
yellow turnips 


A bulb baster 


2 to 3 Tb minced parsley 


(*) AHEAD-OF-TIME NOTE 


CHAPTER SIX: POULTRY 





Pour out the browning fat. Salt the duck and place 
it breast up in the casserole. Add the herb bouquet, 
cover the hot casserole, and place it in the middle level 
of the preheated oven. Roast for 50 to 60 minutes, 
regulating heat so the duck is always making quiet 
cooking noises. Basting is not necessary. 


While the duck r cooking, prepare the turnips: Peel 
them and cut into large olive shapes about 134 inches 
long, or into 34-inch dice. Drop into boiling, salted 
water, and boil slowly for 5 minutes. Drain. 








After the duck has roasted for 50 to 60 minutes, or 30 
to 40 minutes before the end of its estimated cooking 
time, degrease casserole with bulb baster. Arrange 
the turnips around the duck, cover the casserole, and 
return it to the oven. Baste turnips occasionally with 
the juices in the casserole. 





The duck is done when its juices run a pale rose for 
medium rare, or a clear yellow for well done. 


Drain the duck, discard trussing strings, and place it 
on a hot platter. Remove the turnips with a slotted 
spoon, arrange them around the duck, and decorate 
with parsley. Degrease the cooking juices, correct 
seasoning, pour into a warmed sauceboat, and serve. 


The duck, turnips, and degreased cooking juices can be returned to the 


hot casserole. Set the cover askew, and keep it warm for 30 minutes in the 


turned-off hot oven, or over barely simmering water. 


VARIATIONS 


Canard Braisé avec Choucroute — à la Badoise 


[Duck Braised in Sauerkraut | 


Canard Braisé aux Choux Rouges 
[Duck Braised in Red Cabbage] 


s 


+ . . . = 
These two classic combinations are both done in the same way: after the 
sauerkraut or cabbage is about two thirds braised, the browned duck is added 


DUCK 


281 


to cook in the casserole, and all ingredients benefit from their mutual exchange 
of flavors. Parsley potatoes or braised chestnuts and a chilled Alsatian Traminer 


go well with this. 
For 5 or 6 people 


Ingredients for 2 lbs. of 


braised sauerkraut, page- 


498, or braised red cab- 


bage, page 496 
A casserole large enough to 
include the duck as well 


A 5%4-lb.  ready-to-cook 
duckling 


Parsley sprigs 


A 


4 





Follow the recipe‘for braised sauerkraut or braised 


red cabbage, and cook for 314 hours. 





Season, truss, prick, and dry the duck. Brown it in 
hot fat as described in the preceding recipe. Salt it 
and bury it in the casserole with the sauerkraut or 
cabbage. Cover, and braise for about 114 hours more, 
or until the duck is done. 


When done, remove the duck to a hot platter and 
discard trussing strings. Lift out the sauerkraut or 
cabbage, draining its juices back into the casserole, 
and arrange it about the duck. Decorate with parsley. 


Degrease the cooking juices. Set casserole over high 
heat and boil rapidly until the liquid has reduced and 
its flavor is concentrated. Strain into a sauceboat, pour 
a spoonful over the duck, and serve. 


CANETON BRAISE AUX MARRONS 
[Braised Duck with Chestnut and Sausage Stuffing | 


Follow the recipe for braised goose with chestnut and sausage stuffing, 
page 285. Use the timetable for roast duck on page 273, adding 30 minutes more 


because of the stuffing. 


CANARD EN CROUTE 
| Boned, Stuffed Duck Baked in a Crust] 


This recipe is on page 571. 


282 CHAPTER SIX: POULTRY 


GOOSE 
Oie 


Goose, like duck, can only be considered gastronomically interesting when 
it is under 6 months old, and that is probably the only kind you will find in 
American markets. It usually comes frozen, and should be defrosted either in 
the refrigerator or in a pan with cold, running water. It is prepared for cooking 
like duck, page 272. 


GOOSE FAT 


Goose fat is extremely good as a sauté or basting medium, or as a flavoring 
for braised cabbage or sauerkraut. Once rendered, it will keep for weeks in the 
refrigerator. To render the fat, pull out all the loose fat from inside the goose. 
Chop it up into 44-inch pieces. Simmer it in a covered saucepan with 1 cup of 
water for 20 minutes to draw the fat out of the tissues. Then uncover the pan 
and boil the liquid slowly to evaporate the water. As the moisture evaporates, 
the fat will make spluttering noises. As soon as these have stopped, the fat 
is rendered, the liquid will be a pale yellow, and the fat particles will have 
browned very lightly. Strain the liquid into a jar. 


Frittons 
Grattons 
[Goose Cracklings] 


The browned fat particles may be turned into a spread for croétons, toast, 
or crackers. Pound them in a mortar or put them through the meat grinder. 
Warm them briefly in a skillet and stir in salt, pepper, and allspice to taste. 
Pack them into a jar. When cold, pour a '%-inch layer of hot goose fat over 
them to seal them. They will keep for several weeks in the refrigerator. 


GOOSE STOCK 


A good goose stock is easy to make with the gizzard, neck, heart, and 
wing tips of the goose. The liver may be included, unless you wish to treat it 
like chicken liver, or add it to your stuffing. Follow the general procedure a: 
chicken stock, page 236. It should simmer for 2 hours or so. 


GOOSE 283 


STUFFINGS FOR GOOSE 


Goose may be cooked with or without a stuffing. Besides the prune and 
foie gras, and the chestnut stuffing, both of which are described in the pages 
following, another good one for goose is the apple and sausage mixture in the 
Duck section, page 275. Count on % to 1 cup of stuffing for each ready-to-cook 
pound of goose. An 8-lb. bird, for instance, will take 6 to 8 cups of stuffing. 
Although you may prepare a stuffing ahead of time, never stuff the goose until 
just before cooking, or both goose and stuffing may spoil. 


TIMETABLE FOR ROAST OR BRAISED GOOSE 


The following table is based on unstuffed, unchilled goose cooked to the 
well-done stage—when its juices run pale yellow. Be sure not to overcook your 
goose, or the breast meat especially will be dry and disappointing. You will 
see in the table that the larger the goose, the less time per pound it takes to 
cook. A g-lb. goose requires about 2 hours, and a 12!4-lb. bird, only about 30 
minutes longer. The best sizes to buy are from 9 to 11 Ibs.; larger geese may be 
a bit older and tougher. Oven temperature for roasting is 350 degrees; for 
braising, 325 degrees. A meat thermometer should register 180 degrees. 


APPROXIMATE TOTAL 


READY-TO-COOK NUMBER OF COOKING TIME 

WEIGHT PEOPLE SERVED (UNSTUFFED GOOSE) * 

8 Ibs. 6 1 hour and 50 to 55 minutes 
9 lbs. 6 to 8 About 2 hours 

9% lbs. 8 tog 2 hours and 10 to 15 minutes 
10% lbs. 9 to 10 2 hours and 15 to 20 minutes 
11% lbs. 10 to 12 2 hours and 20 to 30 minutes 
1212 lbs. 12 to 14 2 hours and 30 to 40 minutes 


* For a stuffed goose, add from 20 to 40 minutes to the times given. 


OIE ROTIE AUX PRUNEAUX 
[Roast Goose with Prune and Foze Gras Stuffing] 


Goose is roasted exactly like duck, the only exception being that the goose 
is basted every 15 to 20 minutes with boiling water to help in the dissolution 


284 


CHAPTER SIX: POULTRY 


of its subcutaneous fat, which is more copious for goose than for duck. Prunes 
and goose are an exceptionally fine combination. With the goose you can serve 
braised onions and chestnuts, and a full red wine such as a Burgundy or 


Chateauneuf-du-Pape. 
For 6 to 8 people. 





`y 
Estimated roasting time: About 244 hours 


Note: A good brown goose stock will give you an excellent sauce, but it 


must be prepared in advance; see preceding remarks. 


Prune and foie gras stuffing 


40-50 “tenderized” prunes 


I cup white wine or 73 cup 
dry white vermouth 

2 cups brown goose stock, 
brown stock, or canned 


beef bouillon 


The goose liver, minced 
2 Tb finely minced shallots 
or green onions 


1 Tb butter 


3 cup port 


2 cup or 4 ounces of foie 
gras (goose liver), or 
very good liver paste 

Pinch: allspice and thyme 

2 to 3 Tb bread crumbs 

Salt and pepper 


A 9-lb. ready-to-cook young 
roasting goose 
1 tsp salt 


Soak the prunes in hot water for 5 minutes. Pit them 
as neatly as possible. 


Simmer them slowly in a covered saucepan with the 
wine and stock or bouillon for about 10 minutes, or 
until they are just tender. Drain them and reserve 
the cooking liquid. 


Sauté the goose liver and shallots or onions in butter, 
using a small skillet, for 2 minutes. Scrape into a mix- 
ing bowl. 


Boil the wine in the same skillet until it is reduced to 
2 tablespoons. Scrape it into the mixing bowl with the 
liver. 


Blend the fote gras or liver paste and flavorings into 
the mixing bowl with the sautéed liver. If mixture 
seems too soft for easy stuffing, beat in bread crumbs. 
Taste carefully for seasoning. Fill each prune with a 
teaspoon of the stuffing. 


? 


Preheat oven to 425 degrees. 





Salt the cavity of the goose. Stuff it loosely with the 
prunes. Sew or skewer the vent. Secure the legs, wings, 


and neck skin to the body. Prick the skin over the 


GOOSE 


À shallow roasting pan 


Boiling water 


A bulb baster 


The prune cooking juices 
Optional: 3 to 14 cup port 
Salt and pepper 

2 Tb softened butter 


(*) AHEAD-OF-TIME NOTE 


285 


thighs, back, and lower breast. Dry thoroughly, and 
set it breast up in the roasting pan. 

Following directions for roast duck, page 274, brown 
the goose for 15 minutes in the hot oven. Turn goose 
on its side, lower heat to 350 degrees, and continue 


roasting. Baste every 15 to 20 minutes with 2 or 3 


tablespoons of boiling water, and remove excess ac- 
cumulated fat. A bulb baster is useful for this; tilt the 
pan and suck the fat out. Turn goose on its other side 
at the halfway mark, and on its back 15 minutes be- 
fore the end. The goose should be done in 2 hours and 
20 to 30 minutes, when the drumsticks move slightly 
in their sockets, and, when the fleshiest part of one is 
pricked, the juices run a pale yellow. Do not allow 
the goose to overcook or the meat will dry out. 





When done, discard trussing strings and set the goose 
on a platter. 


Tilt the pan and spoon out the fat, but leave the 


brown roasting juices. Pour in the prune cooking 
juices and optional port. Boil down rapidly, scraping 
up coagulated roasting juices, until liquid has reduced 
and is full of flavor. Correct seasoning. Off heat and 
just before serving, swirl in the enrichment butter by 
bits. Pour into a warmed sauceboat, spoon a bit of 
sauce over the goose, and serve. 


Roast goose may wait for 30 to 40 minutes in the turned-off hot oven with 


its door ajar. 


OIE BRAISEE AUX MARRONS 
[Braised Goose with Chestnut and Sausage Stuffing] 


There are many who prefer braised goose to roast goose because the meat 
is more tender and more flavorful, and the closed, moist cooking of a braise 
renders out more fat than open-pan roasting. A good combination to go with 
this would be more chestnuts, either braised or puréed, and braised lettuce, 
onions or leeks. Brussels sprouts, or braised green or red cabbage are other 


286 


CHAPTER SIX: POULTRY 


choices. Serve a red Burgundy, Côtes du Rhône, Châteauneuf-du-Pape, or 


chilled Alsatian Traminer. 


For a 9-lb. bird, serving 8 to 10 allies, of the meat stuffing 


the goose will go further. s 


Estimated roasting time: 24 hours 


Sausage and chestnut stuffing (8 cups) 


1¥, pounds of fresh chest- 
nuts, or 4 cups of drained, 
canned, and unsweetened 
chestnuts 


4 cups of the fresh ground 
veal and pork stuffing de- 
scribed on page 565 

The goose liver, chopped, 
and sautéed in butter 


A 9-lb. ready-to-cook young 
roasting goose 

12 tsp salt 

A shallow roasting pan 


r tsp salt 

A covered roaster just large 
enough to hold the goose 
easily 


The goose neck, wing tips, 
gizzard, and heart 

1¥2 cup sliced onions 

12 cup sliced carrots 

4 Tb rendered goose fat, 
rendered fresh pork fat, or 
cooking oil 


A skillet 


If using fresh chestnuts, peel them, and simmer them 
in stock and seasonings as described on page 518. 
Drain, and allow them to cool. 


Prepare the stuffing and beat the sautéed liver into it. 


Sauté a spoonful to check seasoning. 


Preheat oven to 450 degrees. 


Season the cavity of the goose with salt. Starting with 
the meat stuffing, loosely pack alternate layers of 
stuffing and of chestnuts into the goose, leaving a good 
inch of unfilled space at the vent. Sew or skewer the 
vent, truss the goose, and prick its skin. Dry it thor- 
oughly, and set it breast up in the roasting pan. 


Brown the goose lightly in the hot oven for 15 to 20 


minutes, turning it several times so it will color evenly. 


Salt the goose and place it breast up in the roaster. 


Turn oven down to 325 degrees. 


Brown the goose bits and vegetables in hot fat in the 


skillet. 


GOOSE 


6 Tb flour 


4 cups boiling brown stock 
or canned beef bouillon 
3 cups dry white wine or 2 


cups dry white vermouth . 


A bulb baster 


Salt and pepper to taste 
134 to 4 cup port 


(*) AHEAD-OF-TIME NOTE 


287 


Stir the flour into the skillet and brown slowly for 


several minutes. 


Off heat, blend in the boiling stock or bouillon, and 


then the wine. Simmer for a moment. Then pour the 
contents of the skillet into the roaster around the 
goose. Add additional stock if necessary, so liquid 
reaches about one third the way up the goose. 


Bring to the simmer on top of the stove. Cover, and 
set in the middle level of the preheated 325-degree 
oven. 


Braise for about 2 hours and 20 to 30 minutes, regulat- 
ing oven heat so liquid simmers very quietly. Basting 
is not necessary. Accumulated fat may be removed 
occasionally with the bulb baster. The goose is done 
when its drumsticks move slightly in their sockets, 
and, when their fleshiest part is pricked, the juices run 
pale yellow. 


Remove the goose to a serving platter and discard 
trussing strings. 


Skim the fat out of the roaster (degreasing directions 
are on page 12), boil the cooking liquid down rap- 
idly until it has thickened enough to coat a spoon 
lightly. Correct seasoning. Stir in the port and sim- 
mer a minute or two to evaporate its alcohol. Strain 
the sauce into a bowl or a saucepan, pressing juice out 
of the ingredients. You should have about 5 to 6 cups 
of sauce. Pour a spoonful over the goose, and serve. 


For a 30- to 40-minute wait, return the goose to the roaster, and set the 
cover askew. Place in turned-off hot oven with its door ajar, or over barely 


simmering water. 


tt 


CHAPTER SEVEN  ‘ 


MEAT 
Viandes 


F ACED WITH the awesome problem of what to choose from among the 
wonderful store of French recipes for beef, lamb, pork, ham, sweetbreads, kid- 
neys, liver, and brains, we have picked those which seemed to us especially 
French, or of particular interest to American cooks. We have not gone into 
roast beef or broiled chops as they are practically the same everywhere. Besides 
numerous traditional dishes, we have included a number of French regional 
recipes for ragoúts, stews, and daubes; their comparative economy and ease of 
execution, in addition to their robust flavors, make them most appealing. 

For those who have collections of original French recipes, or who are liv- 
ing in France, we have in most instances given translations, approximations, 
or explanations of French meat cuts. Cross-cultural comparisons are a maze of 
complication as the systems of the two countries are entirely different: the 
French cut meat following muscle separations, while American butchers usu- 
ally cut across the grain. Identification is made more confusing as different re- 

, gions in each country use different names for the same cuts. We have used the 


Chicago terminology for American cuts, and the Paris terminology for French 
cuts. 





? 


BEEF 
Boeuf 


Any cook or housewife is well advised to learn as much as possible aboùt 
grades and cuts of beef, as a vague beef-buyer is open to countless unnecessary 


BEEF STEAKS 28 9 


disappointments and expenses. Both the grade of beef and the cut determine 
the cooking method. Beef carcasses are divided into five grades which are rated 
according to the form and shape of the carcass, the amount and distribution of 
fat, and the color and quality of the flesh, fat, and bone. Some packers use their 
own wording. Federal meat inspectors use Prime, Choice, Good, Commercial, 
and Utility in descending order, and stamp the grade on the beef so it is visible 
for each retail cut. Grade is an indication of flavor and tenderness especially for 
roasting and broiling cuts. A Choice or Prime sirloin steak or roast will be 
more tender and juicy than one graded Good because the flesh of the latter is 
less marbled with fat. Chuck or rump from a Good carcass will be quite tough 
when roasted, while the same cut from a Choice carcass should be reasonably 
tender. However, both cuts are suitable for braising, so there is no reason to 
buy Prime beef when Good will do. At most retail markets, the higher grades 
used for roasting and broiling are aged from three to six weeks to improve 
their flavor and tenderness. 

The best way to learn beef cuts is step by step, or cut by cut. You could 
begin by peering closely at sirloin steaks every time you go into a market. Is 
the flesh cherry red and marbled with little veins of fat, and is the surrounding 
fat creamy white and firm? If so, it is a Choice or Prime steak. Is it a double- 
bone or round-bone sirloin—the two best cuts, or is it from the wedge-bone or 
pinbone end? When you feel you have mastered the sirloin, you might move 
to the leg, familiarizing yourself with top round, bottom round, and sirloin 
tip. Then proceed to other cuts. Ask questions. Your butcher will be much 
more interested in serving you well if you show interest in learning about his 
meat. 





STEAKS 
Biftecks 


French and American methods for cutting up a beef carcass are so dis- 
similar that it is rarely possible to find in America the same steak cut you could 
find in France. But this is a point of small significance as the various steak rec- 
ipes differ from one another only in their sauces, butters, or garnitures. 

In France the tenderloin or filet, which runs from the thirteenth rib to 
the rump, is usually removed in one piece. Then the loin strip, under which 
the filet was cut, is boned and used for steaks or roasts. Thus there is neither 
short loin nor sirloin left intact, and consequently no T-bone, porterhouse, or 


290 CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


sirloin steak. The best part of the rib-roast section is usually boned and cut into 
rib steaks called entrecétes. 


CUTS FOR STEAK... 


Since you often find French steak names on a menu, here is a list explain- 
ing them. — | 

Entrecôte. Rib steak, or rib eye steak, from the rib-roast section, ribs 9 to 
11. Delmonico or club steak, cut from the rib end of the short loin, is a near 
equivalent. 

Romsteck, or Rumsteck. Rump steak, cut from the end of a rump which 
faces the sirloin. Rump steaks must be from a well aged Prime or Choice car- 
cass to be tender. i 

Faux Filet, or Contre Filet. Loin strip steak, or strip steak, corresponds to 
the loin part of a porterhouse or T-bone steak rather than to the tenderloin 
part. Top-quality strip steaks are rarely available in American retail markets 
because of the heavy call for porterhouse and T-bone steaks. Delmonico or club 
steak is practically equivalent. 

Bifteck. Tenderloin butt, or New York butt, cut from the larger and less 
tender end of the filet, which also makes up the best part.of a sirloin steak. In 
France the term brfteck can also include any lean, boneless steak such as a 
trimmed Delmonico, club, strip, or rump steak, or a tender steak from the 
round or chuck. We shall also include T-bone, porterhouse, and sirloin as 
biftecks. 


FILET OF BEEF 


If the filet is taken from a large Choice or Prime carcass, the meat should 
be 34 to 4 inches in diameter at the heart, and the slices delicately marbled 
with fat. Because most butchers reserve their best beef carcasses for T-bone and 


SIRLOIN STEAK SECTION| PORTERHOUSE STEAK SECTION T-BONE STEAK SECTION 


RUMP OR 
SIRLOIN END 
(Tête de Filet) 


RIB END 
(Queue de Filet) 





——— Sa -7RV-— 
BIFTECK CHATEAUBRIAND | FILer STEAK} TOURNEDOS | FILET MIGNON 
(Tenderloin Butt) 


Whole Filet of Beef 


BEEF STEAKS 291 


porterhouse steaks, it is not always possible to find a filet of this size and 
quality. 





Untrimmed Center Cut 
of Filet, the Chéteau- 
briand Section 








Bifteck, or tenderloin butt, is considered to be the less tender part of the 
filet and is classified in the preceding list of steaks. 





Tournedos Wrapped in a 
Strip of Pork Fat 





66499 
t 


Chateaubriand (which can also be spelled with a final rather than 
“d”) corresponds to the tenderloin portion of a Choice or Prime porterhouse 
steak. It is cut 2 inches thick, should weigh a pound or more before trimming, 
and is always broiled or grilled. A thinner steak cut from this portion of the 
tenderloin is called a filet. 

Tournedos and filet mignons, which become progressively smaller near 


the tail of the filet, correspond to the tenderloin of T-bone steaks. 


WINE SUGGESTIONS 
With all but the filez steaks, which are discussed separately, serve a good, 
rather young red wine with a certain amount of body, such as a Côtes du 
Rhône, Bordeaux-St. Emilion, or Beaujolais. 


292 CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


VEGETABLE SUGGESTIONS 


Bifteck et pommes frites are just as popular in France as steak and baked 
potatoes are in America. À good change from the old rhythm would be the 
garlic mashed potatoes on page 520, or one of the scalloped potato casseroles 
on pages 523 to 526, or potatoes sautéed in butter, page 526. Vegetables which 
would go well include the following: D | 

Buttered green peas, page 462, or beans, page 444, or Brussels sprouts, 

pages 449 to 455 

Baked or stuffed tomatoes, pages 506 to 508 

Broiled or stuffed mushrooms, pages 512 and 516 

Ratatouille, egg plant casserole, page 503 

Turnips, including the excellent casserole on page 488 

Braised celery, leeks, or lettuce, pages 489 to 496 

Here are some of the classical French vegetable garnitures for a steak 
platter: 

Beauharnais, stuffed mushrooms, page 516, artichoke hearts cooked in 
butter, page 431 

Brabançonne, Brussels sprouts with cheese sauce, page 453, potato balls 
sautéed in butter, page 528 

Catalane, stuffed tomatoes, page 507, artichoke hearts cooked in butter, 
page 431 

Chartres, stuffed mushrooms, page 516, braised lettuce, page 489 

Choron, artichoke hearts filled with buttered peas, page 431, potato balls 
sautéed in butter, page 528 

Maillot, glazed turnips, page 488, carrots, page 479, and onions, page 483, 
' with braised lettuce, page 489, and buttered green peas and beans 

Sévigné, braised lettuce, page 489, broiled mushrooms, page 512, potatoes 
sautéed in butter, page 526 





* BIFTECK SAUTE AU BEURRE 
[Pan-broiled Steak ] ; 


Pan-broiled steak is very French and also a very nice method for cooking 
small steaks. None of the juice essences are lost, and it is easy to tell when the 
steak is done. s 


A 1-inch steak takes 8 to 10 minutes to cook, and the sauce, or- pan gravy, 


BEEF STEAKS 293 


I to 2 minutes to prepare after the steak is on its platter. The sauce, you will 
observe, is a deglazing of the pan with stock, wine, or water, and a swish of. 
butter at the end. It is purely an extension of the pan juices, and amounts to 
only x or 2 tablespoons of buttery, concentrated essence per serving. 


KIND OF STEAK TO BUY 


In France you would select an entrecôte, romsteck, faux-filet, or bifteck. 
In America buy any tender, well-aged 34- to 1-inch steak or steaks which will 
fit easily into a skillet such as: 


Club or Delmonico Small Sirloin Tenderloin Butt 
T-Bone Loin Strip Steak Rump Steak 
Porterhouse Rib Steak Chuck Steak 


AMOUNT TO BUY 


One pound of boneless steak will serve 2 people, 3 if the rest of the menu 
is copious. For large sirloins, T-bones, and porterhouse steaks, count on about 
¥%, pound per person. | 


PREPARATION FOR COOKING 


Trim off excess fat. Cut small incisions around the circumference of the 
steak wherever there is a layer of gristle, usually between the fat and the meat. 
This will prevent the steak from curling as it cooks. Dry the steak thoroughly 
on paper towels. It will not brown if it is moist. 


For 4 to 6 people, depending on your menu 


One or two heavy skillets Put the butter and oil, or beef suet, in the skillet and 
just large enough to hold place over moderately high heat until you see the 
the meat easily in one butter foam begin to subside, or the beef fat almost 
layer smoking; this indicates the fat is hot enough to sear 

1% Tb butter and 1% Tb the meat. Sauté the steak on one side for 3 to 4 min- 
oil, or rendered fresh beef utes, and regulate the heat so the fat is always very 


suet, more if needed hot but is not burning. Turn the steak and sauté the 
2 to 2% lbs. steak 34 to 1 other side for 3 to 4 minutes. The steak is done to a 
inch thick medium rare (à point) the moment you observe a 


little pearling of red juice beginning to ooze at the 
surface of the steak. Another test is to press the steak 
with your finger; it is medium rare when it just be- 
gins to take on a suggestion of resistance and spring 
in contrast to its soft raw state. If you have any 
doubts at all, cut a small incision in the steak. 


294 CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


A hot platter Remove the steak to a hot platter and season it 
Salt and pepper quickly with salt and pepper. Keep warm for a mo- 


ment while completing the sauce. 


V2 cup stock, canned beef Pour the fat out of the skillet. Add the liquid, and 
bouillon, red wine, dry set the skillet over high heat. Scrape up coagulated 
white wine, dry white juices with a wçoden spoon while rapidly boiling 
vermouth, or water down the liquid until it is reduced almost to a syrup. 

2 to 3 Tb softened butter Off heat, swirl the butter into the liquid until it is 

absorbed; the butter will thicken the liquid into a 
light sauce. Pour the sauce over the steak and serve. 





VARIATIONS: FLAVORED BUTTERS 


Any of the following are delicious when beaten into your sauce in place 
of plain butter. They are simply butters creamed with flavorings. If you are 
serving a broiled steak, spread one of the butters over it just before taking it to 
the table. 

Parsley Butter, page 102 

Herb Butter, page 102 

Mustard Butter, page 100 

Shallot Butter, page 103 

Garlic Butter, page 101 

Snail Butter (with shallot, garlic, and herbs), page 103 





VARIATIONS 
Bifteck Sauté Bercy 
[Pan-broiled Steak, with Shallot and White Wine Sauce] 


For broiled steak, use a beurre Bercy, page 103, and spread it over the 
steak just before serving. 
For 4 to 6 people, depending on your menu 


2 to 2% lbs. steak Sauté the steak as described in the master recipe and 

1 Tb butter remove it to a hot platter. Pour the fat out of the 

3 Tb minced shallots or skillet. Add the butter. Stir in the shallots or onions 
green onions and cook slowly for a minute. 


BEEF STEAKS 


2 cup dry white wine or 
dry white vermouth 


4 to 6 Tb softened butter 

Salt and pepper to taste 

2 to 3 Tb minced parsley 

Optional: 2 to 3 Tb diced, 
poached beef marrow, 
page 19 


295 


Pour the wine into the skillet and boil it down rap- 
idly, scraping up the coagulated juices from the bot- 
tom of the pan until the liquid has reduced almost to 
a syrup. 


Off heat, beat in the butter a spoonful at a time until 


‘it is absorbed and has thickened the sauce. Beat in 


salt and pepper to taste, then the parsley. Fold in the 
optional beef marrow. Spread sauce over the steak 
and serve. 


Bifteck Sauté Marchand de Vins 


Bifteck Sauté à la Bordelaise 
[Pan-broiled Steak with Red Wine Sauce] 


Use the same procedure described for the preceding Bercy sauce, but sub- 
stitute red wine for white. If you add the optional beef marrow, the sauce 


becomes a bordelaise. 





Bifteck Sauté Béarnaise 


[Pan-broiled Steak with Béarnaise Sauce] 


For 4 to 6 people, depending on your menu 


2 to 242 lbs. steak 

12 cup brown stock, canned 
beef bouillon, dry white 
wine, or dry white ver- 
mouth. 

34 cup sauce béarnaise, 


page 84 


Sautéed or fried potatoes 
Fresh water cress 
A warmed sauceboat 


Sauté the steak as described in the master recipe, pre- 
ceding. Deglaze skillet with stock, bouillon, or wine, 
boiling it down rapidly to reduce it to 1% spoonfuls. 
Beat the liquid by droplets into the sauce béarnaise. 


Decorate the steak platter with sautéed or fried po- 
tatoes and fresh water cress. Serve the sauce in a 
warmed sauceboat. 


296 


CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


EE ———— 


Steak au Poivre 


[Pepper Steak with Brandy Sauce] 


Steak au poivre can be very good when it is not so buried in pepper and 
doused with flaming brandy that the flavor of the meat is utterly disguised. In 
fact, we do not care at all for flaming brandy with this dish; it is too reminis- 


cent of restaurant show-off cooking for tourists. And the alcohol taste, as it is 


not boiled off completely, remains in the brandy, spoiling the taste of the meat. 
For 4 to 6 people, depending on your menu 


2 Tb of a mixture of several 
kinds of peppercorns, or 
white peppercorns 


2 to 214 lbs. steak 3⁄4 to 1 
inch thick 


A hot platter 
Salt 


1 Tb butter 

2 Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 

Y cup stock or canned beef 
bouillon 

Ys cup cognac 

3 to 4 Tb softened butter 

Sautéed or fried potatoes 

Fresh water cress 


Place the peppercorns in a big mixing bowl and crush 
them roughly with a pestle or the bottom of a bottle. 


Dry the steaks on paper towels. Rub and press the 


crushed peppercorns into both sides of the meat with 
your fingers and the palms of your hands. Cover with 
waxed paper. Let stand for at least half an hour; two 
or 3 hours are even better, so the flavor of the pepper 


will penetrate the meat. 


Sauté the steak in hot oil and butter as described in 
the preceding master recipe. Remove to a hot plat- 
ter, season with salt, and keep warm for a moment 
while completing the sauce. 


Pour the fat out of the skillet. Add the butter and 
shallots or green onions and cook slowly for a minute. 
Pour in the stock or bouillon and boil down rapidly 
over high heat while scraping up the coagulated cook- 
ing juices. Then add the cognac and boil rapidly for 
a minute or two more to evaporate its alcohol. Off 
heat, swirl in the butter a half-tablespoon at a time. 
Decorate the platter with the potatoes and, water cress. 
Pour the sauce over the steak, and serve. 


FILET STEAKS-TENDERLOIN STEAKS 
Filets, Tournedos, Filet Mignons 


Filets, tournedos, and filet mignons are steaks 1 inch thick cut from the 
filet of beef as illustrated on page 290. The filet, the largest, should be 3 to 314 


FILET STEAKS 207 


inches in diameter, the tournedos about 2}, inches, and the filet mignon can 
be as small as 114 inches. Since they are all cooked and served in the same way, 
we shall refer to all three as zournedos in French, and as filet steaks in English. 
Filet steaks are trimmed of all fat and surrounding filament. The circum- 
ference is usually wrapped in a strip of fresh pork fat or blanched bacon, and 
tied with string so the steaks will keep their neat circular shape while they are 
being cooked. The string is removed before serving and also, if you wish, the 
strip of fat or bacon. Although filet steaks may be broiled, they are usually 
sautéed quickly in hot butter to a nicé brown on the outside and a juicy red 
inside. 

Filet steaks may be sauced and served exactly like the beefsteaks in the 
preceding recipes, but because of their expense they are usually surrounded 
with fine wines and truffles or other elaborations. They cook in 8 to ro min- 
utes, and the sauce takes about 2 minutes, so you can afford to spend a bit of 
time on the vegetables and garniture you wish to serve with them. Here are 
three classical combinations. See also the vegetable suggestions for steak on 


page 292. 


x TOURNEDOS SAUTES AUX CHAMPIGNONS 
TOURNEDOS SAUTES CHASSEUR 


[Filet Steaks with Mushroom and Madeira Sauce | 


A handsome presentation for these steaks would be a platter decorated 
with whole baked tomatoes, artichoke hearts cooked in butter, and potato 
balls sautéed in butter. Serve with them a good red Bordeaux from the Médoc 
district. 


For 6 steaks 


6 crustless rounds of white Sauté bread rounds in hot clarified butter to brown 
bread, 24% inches in di- very lightly on each side. Reheat them for a minute 
ameter and 346 inch thick in a 350-degree oven just before serving. 

3 to 4 Tb clarified butter, 


page 15 


14 Ib. fresh mushrooms, Sauté mushrooms in hot butter and oil for 5 minutes 
whole if very small, quar- to brown them lightly. Stir in the shallots or onions 
tered if large 


+ 


298 


2 Tb butter 

1 Tb oil 

2 Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 

14 tsp salt 

Pinch of pepper 


6 filet steaks 1 inch thick 
and 24 inches in diame- 
ter, each wrapped in a 
strip of fat as illustrated 
on page 291 

2 Tb butter, more if needed 

1 Tb oil 

x or 2 heavy skillets just 
large enough to hold the 
steaks easily 


Salt and pepper 
A warm serving platter 


14 cup stock or canned beef 
bouillon 
1 Tb tomato paste 


1⁄4 cup Madeira mixed with 
1, Tb of arrowroot or 
cornstarch 

2 Tb minced parsley, tarra- 
gon and chervil, or parsley 
only 


VARIATIONS 


CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


and cook slowly for a minute or 2 more. Season, and 
set aside. 


Dry the steaks on paper towels. Place the butter and 


oil in the skillet and set over moderately high heat. 
When you see the butter foam begin to subside, indi- 
cating it is hot enough to sear and brown the steaks, 
sauté them for 3 to 4 minutes on each side. They are 
medium rare if, when pressed with your finger, they 
offer'a suggestion of resistance in contrast to their 
soft, raw state. 


Immediately remove from heat. Discard the strings 
and, if you wish, the strip of fat. Season quickly with 
salt and pepper. Place each steak on a canapé, and 
keep warm for several minutes while preparing the 
sauce. 


Pour the fat out of the skillet; stir in the stock or 
bouillon and tomato paste. Boil rapidly, scraping up 
the coagulated cooking juices, until liquid is reduced 
to 2 or 3 tablespoons. 


Pour in the starch and wine mixture; boil rapidly for 
a minute to evaporate the alcohol and to thicken the 
sauce lightly. Then add the sautéed mushrooms and 
simmer a minute more to blend flavors. Correct sea- 
soning. Spread the sauce and mushrooms over the 
steaks, sprinkle with herbs, and serve. 


Tournedos Henri IV 


[Filet Steaks with Artichoke Bottoms and Béarnaise Sauce] 


For 6 steaks 


FILET STEAKS 


6 filet steaks sautéed in oil 
and butter 

6 canapés (rounds of white 
bread sautéed in clarified 
butter, page 199) 

4 cup Madeira, dry white 
wine, or dry white ver- 
mouth 

14 cup beef stock or canned 
beef bouillon 

6 fresh artichoke bottoms 
cooked in butter, page 431 

34 to 1 cup sauce béarnaise, 
page 84 

Potato balls sautéed in but- 
ter, page 528, and rolled in 
2 Tb minced parsley 

Asparagus tips cooked in 
butter, page 438 


Tournedos Rossini 


299 


Sauté the steaks as described in the master recipe. Sea- 
son and place on canapés on a hot platter. Keep warm 
for a few minutes. Pour sauté fat out of skillet, add 
wine and stock or bouillon, and boil down rapidly re- 
ducing liquid to 3 tablespoons while scraping coagu- 
lated sauté juices into it. Spoon liquid over steaks. 


. Top each steak with a hot artichoke bottom filled with 


béarnaise. Decorate platter with the hot potatoes and 
asparagus. Serve immediately. 


[Filet Steaks with Foie Gras, Truffles, and Madeira Sauce] 


A platter of tournedos Rossini takes the filet steak about as far as it can 
go. Were you living in France during the midwinter, your foie gras and 
truffles would, of course, be fresh. Most recipes use canapés (rounds of white 
bread sautéed in butter) as a bed for the steaks; we have chosen artichoke 
bottoms as a further improvement to an already elegant presentation. 

Fitting accompaniments would be potato balls sautéed in butter, but- 
tered peas, asparagus tips, or braised lettuce, and an excellent, chateau-bottled 
red Bordeaux from the Médoc district. 


For 6 steaks 


3 large, fresh artichoke 
bottoms cooked in a 
blanc, page 430 

Salt and pepper 

3 Tb melted butter 


Slice each cooked artichoke bottom in two, horizon- 
tally. Season with salt, pepper, and melted butter. 
Place in a covered dish. Fifteen minutes before serv- 
ing, heat them in a 350-degree oven. 


300 


6 slices canned “block” 
foie gras, V4 inch thick 
and about 14 inches in 
diameter 

2 Tb Madeira 

3 Tb rich stock, mushroom 

page 512, or 

canned beef bouillon 


essence, 


18 to 24 slices of canned 
truffle, 146 inch thick 

2 Tb Madeira 

Pinch of pepper 

1 Tb butter 


6 filet steaks 1 inch thick 
and 24 inches in diameter 


Salt and pepper 


A warm serving platter 


Y% cup stock or canned 
bouillon 

Juice from the foze gras 
and truffles 

1 tsp arrowroot or corn- 
starch blended with 2 Tb 
Madeira 

Salt and pepper 

3 to 4 Tb softened butter 


CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 





Place the foie gras slices in a covered dish and baste 
with the Madeira and stock, essence, or bouillon. Ten 
minutes before serving, set over barely simmering wa- 
ter to heat through gently. _ 





Place the truffle slices and their juices in a small sauce- 
pan with the Madeira, pepper, and butter. Five min- 
utes before serving, warm over gentle heat. 


L 





Sauté the steaks as directed in the master recipe on 
page 297. Season with salt and pepper. 


Arrange the hot artichoke bottoms on the serving 
platter and place a steak on each. Over each steak lay 
a warm slice of foie gras, and top with slices of truffle. 
Decorate the platter with whatever vegetables you 
have chosen, and keep warm for 2 to 3 minutes while 
finishing the sauce. 


Pour the fat out of the steak skillet. Pour in the stock 
or bouillon, and the juices from the foie gras and 
truffles. Boil down rapidly, scraping up all coagulated 
juices, until liquid has reduced by half. Pour in the 
starch and wine mixture and simmer for a minute. 
Correct seasoning. Off heat, swirl in the butter. Pour 
the sauce over the steaks and serve. 


GROUND BEEF-HAMBURGERS 


Bifteck Haché 


Shock is the reaction of some Americans we have encountered who learn 
that real French people living in France eat hamburgers. They do eat them, 


HAMBURGER 301 


and when sauced with any of the suggestions in the following recipes, the 
French hamburger is an excellent and relatively economical main course for 
an informal party. Serve with them the same typés,of red wines and vegetables 
listed for steaks on page 291-2. 

The best hamburgers are made from the leanest beef. Actually some of 
the least expensive cuts, chuck and neck, are the most flavorful. Top sirloin, 
rump, and round are really second choice for hamburgers although they are 
more expensive. Be fussy in choosing your meat; have all the fat and sinews 
removed, and have it ground before your eyes or better, grind it yourself. The 
fat content of hamburger should be only 8 to 10 per cent, or 114 to 114 ounces 
per pound. This may be in the form of butter, ground beef suet, beef marrow, 
or ground fresh pork fat. 


* BIFTECK HACHE A LA LYONNAISE 


[Ground Beef with Onions and Herbs] 


For 6 hamburgers 


34 cup finely minced yellow 
onions 


2 Tb butter 


122 lbs. lean, ground beef 

2 Tb softened butter, ground 
beef suet, beef marrow, or 
fresh pork fat 

122 tsp salt 

Ym tsp pepper 

W% tsp thyme 

I egg 


Y% cup flour spread on a 
plate 


1 Tb butter and 1 Tb oil, or 
sufficient to film the bot- 
tom of the skillet 

1 or 2 heavy skillets just 
large enough to hold the 
patties easily in one layer 


Cook the onions slowly in the butter for about 10 min- 
utes until very tender but not browned. Place in a 
mixing bowl. 


Add the beef, butter or fat, seasonings, and egg to the 


onions in the mixing bowl and beat vigorously with 
a wooden spoon to blend thoroughly. Correct season- 
ing. Form into patties % inch thick. Cover with 
waxed paper and refrigerate until ready to use. 


Just before sautéing, roll the patties lightly in the 


flour. Shake off excess flour. 


Place the butter and oil in the skillet and set over 


moderately high heat. When you see the butter foam 
begin to subside, indicating it is hot enough to sear 
the meat, sauté the patties for 2 to 3 minutes or more 
on each side, depending on whether you like your 
hamburgers rare, medium, or well done. 


302 


A warm serving platter 


Y% cup beef stock, canned 
beef bouillon, dry white 
wine, dry white vermouth, 
red wine, or 1⁄4 cup water 

2 to 3 Tb softened butter 


CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


Arrange the hamburgers on the serving platter and 


keep warm for a moment while finishing the sauce. 


Pour the fat out of the skillet. Add the liquid and boil 
it down rapidly, scraping-up the coagulated pan 
juices, until it has reduced almost to a syrup. Off heat, 
swirl the butter by half-tablespoons into the sauce 
until it is absorbed. Pour the sauce over the ham- 
burgers and serve. 





VARIATION 


Bitokes à la Russe 


[Hamburgers with Cream Sauce] 


Ingredients for 6 plain beef 
hamburgers or the preced- 
ing flavored hamburgers 


1 cup stock or canned beef 
bouillon 

7; cup whipping cream 

Salt and pepper 

Pinch of nutmeg 

Drops of lemon juice 


2 to 3 Tb softened butter 

2 Tb minced green herbs 
such as parsley, chives, 
tarragon, chervil, or pars- 
ley only 


Sauté the hamburgers in oil and butter as described 


in the preceding master recipe. Remove them to a 
hot serving platter. 


Pour the fat out of the skillet. Add the stock or bouil- 


lon and boil it down rapidly, scraping up coagulated 
cooking juices, until reduced almost to a syrup. Pour 
in the cream and boil it down rapidly for a minute or 
two until it has reduced, and thickened slightly. Sea- 
son to taste with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and drops of 
lemon juice. 


Off heat, swirl in the butter by half-tablespoons until 
it is absorbed. Stir in the herbs, spoon the sauce over 
the hamburgers, and serve. 





VARIATION: FLAVORED BUTTERS 


Any of the butters listed here may be swirled into the skillet after it has 
been deglazed with stock, wine, or water. 


Parsley Butter, page 102 
Herb Butter, page 102 
Mustard Butter, page 100 


Shallot Butter, page 103 
Garlic Butter, page 101 
Snail Butter (shallots, garlic, and ~“ ` 

herbs), page 103 


HAMBURGER 303 





VARIATION: OTHER SAUCES 


Any of the following sauces are made separately. After the hamburgers 
have been sautéed and removed from the skillet, the sauce is poured in and 
boiled for a moment while the coagulated sauté juices are scraped into it. The 
sauce is then poured over the hamburgers. 

Sauce. Tomate, or Coulis de Tomates, tomato sauce, pages 76 to 78 

Sauce Poivrade, brown sauce with strong pepper flavoring, page 70 

Sauce Robert, brown sauce with mustard, page 72 

Sauce Brune aux Fines Herbes, brown sauce with herbs or tarragon, page 
7 

Sauce Madère, brown sauce with Madeira wine, page 75 

Sauce au Cari, brown sauce with curry and onions, page 73 

See also the red wine and the white wine sauce for steaks on page 294, 
and the mushroom sauce for filet steak on page 297. 


FILET OF BEEF 
Filet de Boeuf 


x FILET DE BOEUF BRAISÉ PRINCE ALBERT 
| Braised Filet of Beef Stuffed with Foie Gras and Truffles] 


Here is a magnificent recipe for an important dinner, and it is not a diff- 
cult one in spite of the luxury of its details. We have chosen braised filet be- 
cause it is more unusual than roast filer. Everything except the actual cooking 
of the meat may be done in advance as indicated by the asterisk in the recipe. 

Braised lettuce and potato balls sautéed in butter would go beautifully 
with this, and you should accompany it with a fine chateau-bottled red Bor- 
deaux from the Médoc district. See also the other vegetables suggested for 
steaks on page 292. 

For 8 people 


4 to 6 canned truffles about Cut the truffles in quarters. Place in a small bowl with 
1 inch in diameter juice from the can and the Madeira. Cover and mari- 
3 Tb Madeira nate while preparing the rest of the ingredients. 


The braising vegetables (matignon) 


34 cup each: finely diced Cook the vegetables, ham, seasonings, herbs, and but- 
carrots and onions ter slowly together in a small covered saucepan for 


304 


12 cup finely diced celery 

3 Tb diced boiled ham 

14 tsp salt 

Pinch of pepper 

A small herb bouquet: 2 
parsley sprigs, 1⁄4 bay leaf, 
Y% tsp thyme tied in 
cheesecloth 

3 Tb butter 

13 cup Madeira 


The foie gras stuffing 


2 Tb very finely minced 
shallots or green onions 

1 Tb butter 

4 ounces or 1⁄2 cup mousse 
de foie d’oie (or “block” 
foie gras, which is much 
more expensive but also 
much better) 

1 Tb Madeira 

1 Tb cognac 

Pinch of allspice 

Pinch of thyme 


Ye tsp pepper 


A 3b. trimmed filet of 
beef, at least 3 inches in 
diameter 


Salt and pepper 


A 2¥%-inch strip of fresh 
pork fat ay long as the 
filet (or strips of blanched 
bacon, page 15) 

White string 


Braising the filet 


CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


10 to 15 minutes, until the vegetables are tender but 
not browned. Then pour in the wine and boil it down 
rapidly until it has almost entirely evaporated. Set 
aside. 


Cook the shallots or onions slowly in butter for 3 
minutes in a small saucepan without browning them. 
Scrape into a mixing bowl. Beat in the foie gras and 
other ingredients. Correct seasoning. 


Cut a deep slit down the length of the least present- 


able side of the filet, going to within 14 inch of the 
two ends and to within 4 inch of the other side, or 
top. Season the interior of the slit lightly with salt 
and pepper, and spread it with the foie gras mixture. 
Insert the truffles in a line down the center of the 
filled slit—reserve their marinade for later. Do not 
stuff the filet so full that the slit cannot be closed. 


Lay the pork fat or bacon strips the length of the 


closed slit. Tie securely but not too tightly with loops 
of white string at 1-inch intervals. 
? 


Preheat oven to 350 degrees. 


FILET OF BEEF 


A heavy, oval, fireproof cas- 
serole just large enough to 
hold the filet 

2 Tb butter 

1 Tb oil dé 

Salt and pepper 

A meat thermometer 


2 to 3 cups good brown 
stock or canned beef bouil- 
lon (or a very good brown 
sauce, page 66, in which 
case the starch liaison at 
the end of the recipe is 
omitted) 


An oval of aluminum foil 
A bulb baster 


A hot serving platter 


Sauce and serving 


Wine marinade from the 
truffles 


1 Tb arrowroot or corn- 
starch mixed with 2 Tb 
Madeira 

Optional: a or 3 Tb diced 
truffles 


305 


Brown the filet lightly on all sides in the casserole in 
hot butter and oil. Discard the browning fat. Season 
the meat lightly with salt and pepper. (Insert meat 
thermometer, unless you are using the “instant” kind.) 
‘Spread the cooked vegetables over the filet. 

(*) May be prepared in advance to this point. 


Pour in enough stock, bouillon, or sauce to come half 
way up the sides of the filet. Bring to a simmer on 
top of the stove. Lay foil over the meat. Cover the 
casserole and set in lower third of pre-heated oven for 
45 to 55 minutes. Regulate heat so liquid remains at a 
very slow boil. Baste the meat with the braising stock 
3 or 4 times during its cooking. The filet is done at 
a meat-thermometer reading of 125 degrees for rare 
beef, or 135 for medium rare, and if, when you press 
the filet with your finger, it offers a slight resistance 


` in contrast to its soft, raw state. 


Place the filet slit-side down on a hot serving platter 
after removing the trussing strings and pork fat or 
bacon. The meat should cool for 10 minutes or more 
before carving, so that its juices will retreat back into 
the tissues. 


Skim the fat off the braising juices. Pour the truffle 
marinade into them, and rapidly boil down this liquid 
until it has reduced to about 2 cups and its flavor is 
rich and concentrated. 


Beat in the starch mixture (unless you have used the 
brown sauce) and the optional truffles. Simmer for 2 
to 3 minutes, then correct seasoning. The diced mati- 
gnon vegetables remain in the sauce. 


Decorate the platter with whatever vegetables you 
have chosen. Pour a spoonful or two of the sauce and 
diced vegetables over the meat, and pass the rest of 
the sauce in a bowl. The filet is carved into crosswise 
slices about % inch thick. 


306 CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


VARIATION 


If you do not wish to stuff the files, cook it exactly the same way but with- 
out slitting and filling it. When you have placed it on a serving platter, you 
may garnish the top with broiled mushroom caps alternating with sliced 


truffles. ms 


VARIATION 
Marinade, for Filet of Beef 


The following marinade is particularly good if you do not have top-qual- 
ity filet. 


2 cup dry white wine or Place the raw, trimmed filet in an enameled or pyrex 


dry white vermouth dish or casserole. Pour on the wines and mix in the 
Y% cup Madeira seasonings, herbs, shallots or onions, and truffles. 
2 Tb cognac Cover and marinate for 6 hours or overnight, turning 
1 tsp salt the meat and basting it several times. Drain and dry 
6 peppercorns the meat thoroughly before browning it. Include the 
14 tsp thyme marinade, but not the truffles, with your braising 
14 tsp basil liquid. Reserve the truffles for your sauce. 


3 parsley sprigs 

3 Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 

2 or more canned truffles 
and their juice 





BOILED BEEF 
Pot-au-feu 


x POTEE NORMANDE 
POT-AU-FEU 
[Boiled Beef with Pork, Chicken, Sausage, and Vegetables] 
Here is a sumptuous family-style boiled dinner which will serve 12 or 


more, and always makes a great hit with guests. It is brought to the table in it 
kettle or a reasonable facsimile, looking for all the world like a plain pot-au- 


BOILED BEEF 307 


feu. The host starts the proceedings as usual by spearing out the beef and plac- 
ing it on a platter. Then he finds a sausage, and after that a big piece of pork. 
Finally, to wild acclaim, he brings out a chicken. Two or three sauces may be 
served, such as a cream sauce with mustard and tomato, an herbal mayonnaise, 
and a big bowl of thé cooking stock. The potée, like all boiled dinners, is easy 
on the cook because it can simmer quietly by itself for 4 to 5 hours and if it is 
done before serving time, it can remain in its kettle where it will keep warm 
for a good hour. 


VEGETABLE AND WINE SUGGESTIONS 


Carrots, turnips, onions, and leeks cook along with the meats. Boiled po- 
tatoes, risotto, or buttered noodles are prepared and served separately. A nice, 
simple red wine goes well: Beaujolais, Bordeaux, or Chianti, or a chilled rosé. 


BEEF CUTS FOR BOILING——POT-AU-FEU 


First Choice: Rump Pot Roast—Pornte de Culotte or Aiguillette de Rum- 
steck i 
Other Choices: Sirloin Tip, Knuckle—Tranche Grasse 

Bottom Round—Gite à la Noix 

Chuck Pot Roast—Paleron or Macreuse à Pot-au-feu 

Brisket—Milieu de Poitrine 


For 12 to 16 people 


A kettle large enough to 
hold all the ingredients 
listed 

Beef (cooking time 21% to 3 
hours): a 4-lb. boneless 
piece of rump pot roast, 
sirloin tip, bottom round, 
chuck pot roast, or brisket 

Pork (cooking time about 3 
hours): a 4-lb. piece from 
the butt, picnic, rolled 
shoulder, or fresh ham 

Chicken (cooking time 2/2 
to 3 hours): a 4-lb. ready- 
to-cook stewing hen of 
good quality 

Sausage (cooking time 30 


All the meats and vegetables listed at the left are sim- 


mered together in the kettle, but are added at various 
times, depending on how long they take to cook. Start 
the cooking 5 hours before you expect to serve, to be 
sure the meats will be done. Trim excess fat off the 
beef and pork. Tie each piece so it will hold its shape 
during cooking. Truss the chicken. To each piece of 
meat and to the chicken, tie a string long enough to 
fasten to the handle of the kettle, so that the meats 
may be removed easily for testing. 


NOTE: You could do with this chicken only, and it 
would be called a poule au pot. 


308 


minutes): 2 lbs. lightly 
smoked country or Polish 
sausage 


Vegetable Garnish (cooking 
time 114 hours): carrots, 
onions, turnips, and, if 
available, leeks; 1 to 2 of 
each vegetable per person 


Soup Vegetables and Herbs: 
3 scraped carrots 
3 peeled onions, each stuck 
with a whole clove 
2 scraped parsnips 
2 celery stalks 
2 leeks, if available 
A large herb bouquet as 
follows: 6 parsley sprigs, 
1 bay leaf, 4 tsp thyme, 
4 garlic cloves, 8 pepper- 
corns tied in cheese- 
cloth 
Cooking Stock: sufficient 
meat stock to cover in- 
gredients by 6 inches; OR 
3 cans of beef bouillon, 3 
cans of chicken broth, and 
water 
Optional: raw or cooked 
beef or veal bones, meat 
scraps, poultry carcasses, 
necks, gizzards 


CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


Prepare the vegetable garnish: Peel the carrots and 


turnips and quarter them lengthwise; peel the onions; 
trim and wash the leeks. Tie the vegetables in one or 
several bundles of washed cheesecloth so they may be 
removed easily from the kettle. 


Place the beef in the kettle with the soup vegetables, 
herb bouquet, and optional bones and scraps. Cover 
with cooking stock by 6 inches. More liquid may be 
added later if necessary. Set kettle over moderate heat, 
bring to the simmer, skim. Partially cover the kettle 
and simmer slowly for 1 hour, skimming occasionally. 





Add the pork and chicken. Bring kettle quickly back 
to the simmer. Skim. Simmer 114 hours more and 
skim from time to time. 


Then add the vegetable garnish and bring kettle 


quickly back to the simmer. Taste cooking stock for 
seasoning and salt lightly if necessary. Simmer 114 to 
2 hours more, adding the sausage 14 hour before the 
end. The meats and chicken are done when they are. 
tender if pierced with a sharp-pronged fork or skewer. 

If any piece is tender before the others are done, re- 


BOILED BEEF 309 
move to a bowl and keep moist with several ladlefuls 
of cooking stock. Return to kettle to reheat before 
serving. 4 
(*) If the potée is ready before you are, it will stay 
warm for at least 45 minutes in the kettle, or may be 
reheated. 


While the kettle is simmering, prepare one or two of 
the sauces suggested at the end of the recipe, using 
some of the liquid from the kettle if you need stock. 


Serving 


Drain the meats and the vegetable garnish. Discard trussing strings. Arrange 
vegetables on a large, hot platter and moisten them with a ladleful of cooking stock. 
Decorate with parsley. Either place the meats in a large casserole for presentation and 
carving at the table, or carve in the kitchen and arrange on a platter. Strain, degrease, 
and season enough cooking stock to fill a large serving bowl, and pass it along with 
whatever sauce or sauces you have chosen from the following suggestions. 


Sauce suggestions 


Make 6 to 8 cups if only one sauce is to be served; 4 cups each if two sauces 
are served. 

Sauce Alsacienne, hard-boiled egg mayonnaise with herbs, capers, and cooking 
stock, page 93 

Sauce Nénette, heavy cream simmered until it has reduced and thickened, then 
flavored with mustard and tomato, page 387 

Sauce Tomate or Coulis de Tomates, a good tomato sauce, page 76-8 

Sauce Supréme, a velouté sauce made with the cooking stock, and enriched with 
cream, page 59 





BRAISED BEEF-POT ROAST 
Pièce de Boeuf Braisée 
x BOEUF A LA MODE 
[Beef Braised in Red Wine] 


Braised beef is a wonderful party dish; it is not only delicious to smell, 
look at, and eat, but you have no worries about overdone meat, and you can 
cook it ahead of time if you need to. The following recipe calls for a 6- to 24- 
hour marination of the beef in red wine and aromatic vegetables before cook- 


310 CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


ing. If you prefer to omit this step, pour the marinade ingredients into the 
casserole after browning the meat. 


VEGETABLE AND WINE SUGGESTIONS 


Boeuf à la mode is traditionally garnished with braised carrots and onions, 
and is usually accompanied by buttered noodles, parsley potatoes, or steamed 
rice. Other vegetables could be braised lettuce, celery, or leeks, or buttered 
green peas. Serve with it a good, characterful red wine, such as a Burgundy, 
Hermitage, Céte Rétie, or Chateauneuf-du-Pape. 


BEEF CUTS FOR BRAISING 


Although it is not essential, beef for braising is usually larded. That is, 
strips of fresh pork fat are inserted into it, going in the direction of the grain. 
They baste the interior of the meat as it cooks, and make an attractive design 
when the meat is sliced. Most butchers will lard the meat for you. 

Choose a piece of beef of at least 3 pounds, and, however long it is, its 
width should be at least 4 inches. It shrinks quite a bit during cooking. Count 
on 1 pound of boneless beef for 2 or 3 people. 

First Choice: Rump Pot Roast—Pointe de Culotte, or Aiguillette de 
Rumsteck 

Other Choices: Sirloin Tip, Knuckle—Tranche Grasse 

Chuck Pot Roast—Paleron or Macreuse à Pot-au-feu 
Top Round—Tende de Tranche 

Bottom Round—Gite à la Noix 

Eye of Round—Rond de Gite à la Noix 


For 10 to 12 people 


Red wine marinade 


An enameled, pyrex, or Place half the vegetables, herbs, and spices in the bot- 
porcelain bowl just large tom of the bowl. Rub the meat with salt and pepper 
enough to hold all the in- and place it over the vegetables. Spread the rest of 
gredients listed the vegetables and herbs over the meat. Pour on the 

1 cup each: thinly sliced wine, brandy, and olive oil. Cover and marinate for 
carrots, onions, and celery at least 6 hours (12 to.24 hours if the meat is refrig- 
stalks erated). Turn and baste the meat every hour or so. 

2 halved cloves unpeeled 
garlic 

1 Tb thyme F 

2 bay leaves 


BRAISED BEEF 


V4 cup minced parsley 

2 whole cloves or 4 allspice 
berries 

A 5-lb. piece of braising beef 
trimmed and tied for 
cooking 

1 Tb salt 

Y tsp pepper 

5 cups young red wine with 
body—Burgundy, Cotes 
du Rhône, Macon, or 
Chianti 

3 cup brandy 

12 cup olive oil 


311 


Half an hour before cooking, drain the meat on a 
rack. Just before browning, dry it thoroughly with 
paper towels. It will not brown if it is damp. 


Browning and braising the beef 


A fireproof casserole or 
heavy roaster just large 
enough to hold the meat 
and braising ingredients 

4 to 6 Tb rendered pork fat 
or cooking oil 


One or all of these to give 
body to the sauce: 
1 or 2 cracked veal knuck- 
les 
x or 2 split calf’s feet 
4 to 8 ounces fresh pork 
rind, bacon rind, or 
ham rind simmered 10 
minutes in a quart of 
water, rinsed, and 
drained 
4 to 6 cups beef stock, or 
canned beef bouillon 


Preheat oven to 350 degrees. 


Add the fat to the casserole and place over moderately 
high heat. When fat is on the point of smoking, 
brown the meat on all sides. This takes about 15 min- 
utes. Pour out the browning fat. 

(*) Recipe may be prepared in advance up to this 
point. 


Pour in the wine marinade and boil it down rapidly 
until it has reduced by half. Then add the veal knuck- 
les, calf’s feet, and rind, and pour in enough stock or 
bouillon to come two thirds of the way up the beef. 
Bring to a simmer on top of the stove, skim, cover 
tightly, and set in lower third of preheated oven. 
Regulate heat so liquid remains at a gentle simmer for 
21% to 3 hours, and turn the meat several times during 
its braising. The beef is done when a sharp-pronged 
fork will pierce it easily. 


202 


2 lbs. quartered carrots 
braised in butter, page 477 
24 to 36 small white onions, 


brown-braised in stock, 


page 483 


A hot serving platter 


1 Tb arrowroot or corn- 
starch mixed with 2 Tb 
Madeira or port, if needed 


A slotted spoon 
Parsley sprigs 
A warmed sauceboat 


(*) AHEAD-OF-TIME NOTES 


CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


While the beef is being braised, cook the carrots and 


onions. Set them aside until needed. 


When the meat is tender, remove it to the platter. 
Discard trussing strings. Trim off any loose fat, and 
keep the meat warm while finishing the sauce (5 to 
10 minutes). 


Skim the fat off the braising juices, and strain them 


through a sieve into a saucepan, pressing the liquid 
out of the vegetables. Simmer for a minute or two, 
skimming, then boil rapidly until liquid is reduced to 
about 344 cups and is full of flavor. Taste carefully 
for seasoning. Sauce should be lightly thickened. If 
too thin, beat in the starch and wine mixture and 
simmer for 3 minutes. Then add the cooked carrots 
and onions and simmer for 2 minutes to blend flavors. 


Remove vegetables with a slotted. spoon and arrange 
them around the meat. Decorate with parsley. Pour a 
bit of sauce over the meat and send the rest to the 
table in a warmed sauceboat. (Or carve the meat and 
arrange on the platter with the vegetables and parsley, 
and spoon some of the sauce over the meat.) 


For a wait of up to one hour, return meat, vegetables and sauce to 


casserole, cover loosely, and set over barely simmering water. 


For a longer wait, slice the meat and arrange it on a fireproof plat- 
ter. Place the vegetables around the meat. Baste with the sauce. Half an 
hour before serving, cover and reheat in a 350-degree oven. Leftover 
braised beef will be just as good the next day, heated up the same way. 





VARIATIONS 


Cold Braised Beef 


This recipe for beef braised in red wine may easily be turned into an aspie 
by following the directions for boeuf à la mode en gelée, page 556. Cold braised 


BRAISED BEEF 313 


beef may also be served as a salad, by following the directions for salade de 
boeuf à la parisienne, page 543. 


Pièce de Boeuf à la Cuillère 


[Minced Braised Beef Served in a Beef Shell] 


From Za vieille cuisine française comes an unusual way to serve braised 
beef for a dinner party. First the beef is braised; then meat is cut out from its 
top and center to leave a shell of beef‘which is crumbed and browned in the 
oven. The removed beef is chopped, combined with sautéed mushrooms, 
minced ham, and sauce, and is returned to the shell for serving. A nice thing 
about this recipe is that all may be readied in advance for a 5- to 10-minute 
heating just before serving. 


For 10 to 12 people 
Braising the beef 


Braise the beef and make the sauce following the master recipe, but simmer the 
meat only until it is almost tender, about 3 hours for a 5-pound piece. It should still 
be firm enough to hold its shape when the shell is made. Choose a solid, lean piece 
of top round with no muscle separations. It should weigh at least 5 pounds and be cut 
into an even rectangular block about 5 inches wide and 5 inches deep. 


Making the shell 


When the meat is done, remove it from the sauce. Place it under a board and 
a 2-pound weight to preserve its shape for about an hour while it cools to tepid. Then 
trim it, if necessary, into a neat rectangle. Hollow out the center, leaving an open- 
topped rectangular trough or shell of meat with sides and bottom half an inch thick. 
Chop the removed meat, including any trimmed-off bits, into 14-inch pieces, Place 
them in a large, heavy-bottomed, enameled saucepan, skillet, or casserole. 


Preparing the filling 


72 Ib. fresh mushrooms, Stir the mushrooms and ham into the chopped beef, 
quartered and sautéed in and blend in the sauce. Simmer slowly, covered, for 
oil and butter with 1 Tb x5 to 20 minutes, stirring frequently. Add a little more 
minced shallots or green sauce if the mixture becomes too thick. It should hold 


onions, page 513 its shape fairly solidly in a spoon. Carefully correct 
34 cup (4 ounces) lean, seasoning. Film top of mixture with a spoonful of 
minced, boiled ham stock or a bit of melted butter and set aside, uncov- 


1% cups sauce from the ered, or refrigerate, until needed. 


braised beef 


314 
Finishing the shell 


A pastry brush 

2 eggs beaten in a small 
bowl with 1 tsp water and 
a pinch of salt 

2 cups fine, dry, white bread 
crumbs tossed with 1⁄2 cup 
grated Parmesan cheese 

Y cup melted butter 

A rack set on a roasting pan 


Final assembly 


A vegetable garnish such an 
braised onions and car- 
rots, and sautéed potatoes, 
OR baked tomatoes, and 
green beans or braised 
lettuce 

The rest of the sauce from 
the braised beef poured 
into a gravy bowl 

A hot serving platter 

Y% cup minced parsley 


CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


Using a pastry brush, paint the whole beef shell with 
beaten egg. Pat on a layer of cheese and bread crumbs. 
Sprinkle with butter and set the shell on the rack. Re- 
frigerate until needed. 

(*) Recipe may be completed even a day ahead up 


to this point. >». , 


Preheat oven to 450 degrees. 


About 5 to 10 minutes before serving, set the beef shell 
in the oven to brown the crumb and cheese covering 
lightly. Reheat the filling to the simmer. Heat the 
vegetable garniture and the sauce. Then place the 
browned shell on the platter, heap with meat mixture, 
and sprinkle parsley over it. Arrange the vegetables 
about the platter. Pass the sauce separately. Each guest 
cuts down the crusty, tender shell with a serving 
spoon to help himself to part of it and its filling. 


BEEF STEWS 


Ragoûts de Boeuf 


Of the several types of beef stew in which the meat is browned, then sim- 
mered in an aromatic liquid, boeuf bourguignon is the most famous. The 
daubes, estouffades, and terrines usually require no browning, and are much 
simpler to do. To be technically correct, any recipe describing meat which is 
browned before it is simmered should be labeled a fricassee; we shall not al- 
ways make the distinction here because stew has become current usage. 


CUTS FOR STEWING 


The better the meat, the better the stew. While cheaper and coarser cuts 
may be used, the following are most recommended. Count on 1 pound of bore- 
less meat, trimmed of fat, for 2 people; 3 if the rest of the menu is large. 


BEEF STEWS SLD) 


First Choice: Rump Pot Roast—Pointe de Culotte, or Aiguillette de 
Rumsteck 
Other Choices: Chuck Pot Roast—Paleron, ar Macreuse à Pot-au-feu 
Sirloin Tip—Tranche Grasse 
‘Top Round—Tende de Tranche 
Bottom Round—Gite à la Noix 


COOKING TIME 


Beef stews take 2 to 3 hours of simmering depending on the quality and 
tenderness of the meat. If it has been marinated before cooking, it may take 
less time. Stews may be cooked either in the oven or on top of the stove; the 
oven is preferable because its heat is more uniform. 


BOEUF BOURGUIGNON 
BOEUF A LA BOURGUIGNONNE 


[Beef Stew in Red Wine, with Bacon, Onions, and Mushrooms] 


As is the case with most famous dishes, there are more ways than one to 
arrive at a good boeuf bourguignon. Carefully done, and perfectly flavored, it 
is certainly one of the most delicious beef dishes concocted by man, and can 
well be the main course for a buffet dinner. Fortunately you can prepare it 
completely ahead, even a day in advance, and it only gains in flavor when 
reheated. 


VEGETABLE AND WINE SUGGESTIONS 


Boiled potatoes are traditionally served with this dish. Buttered noodles 
or steamed rice may be substituted. If you also wish a green vegetable, buttered 
peas would be your best choice. Serve with the beef a fairly full-bodied, young 
red wine, such as Beaujolais, Côtes du Rhône, Bordeaux-St. Emilion, or Bur- 
gundy. 

For 6 people 
A 6-ounce chunk of bacon Remove rind, and cut bacon into lardons (sticks, 1⁄4 

inch thick and 144 inches long). Simmer rind and 


bacon for 10 minutes in 144 quarts of water. Drain 
and dry. 


Preheat oven to 450 degrees. 


316 


A 9- to 10-inch fireproof 

casserole 3 inches deep 
1 Tb olive oil or cooking oil 
A slotted spoon 


3 lbs. lean stewing beef cut 
into 2-inch cubes (see pre- 
ceding list of cuts) 


x sliced carrot 
1 sliced onion 


I tsp salt 
1⁄4 tsp pepper 
2 Tb flour 


3 cups of a full-bodied, 
young red wine such mu 
one of those suggested for 
serving, or a Chianti 

2 to 3 cups brown beef stock 
or canned beef bouillon 

1 Tb tomato paste 

2 cloves mashed garlic 

12 tsp thyme 

A crumbled bay leaf 

"The blanched bacon rind 


18 to 24 small white onions, 
brown-braised in stock, 
page 483 

1 lb. quartered fresh mush- 
rooms sautéed in butter, 


page 513 


CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


Sauté the bacon in the oil over moderate heat for 2 to 


3 minutes to brown lightly. Remove to a side dish 
with a slotted spoon. Set casserole aside. Reheat until 


fat is almost smoking before you sauté the beef. 
` . 


Dry the beef in paper towels; it will not brown if it 
is damp. Sauté it, a few pieces at a time, in the hot oil 
and bacon fat until nicely browned on all sides. Add 
it to the bacon. 


In the same fat, brown the sliced vegetables. Pour out 
the sautéing fat. 


Return the beef and bacon to the casserole and toss 
with the salt and pepper. Then sprinkle on the flour 
and toss again to coat the beef lightly with the flour. 
Set casserole uncovered in middle position of pre- 
heated oven for 4 minutes. Toss the meat and return 
to oven for 4 minutes more. (This browns the flour 
and covers the meat with a light crust.) Remove cas- 
serole, and turn oven down to 325 degrees. 


Stir in the wine, and enough stock or bouillon so that 
the meat is barely covered. Add the tomato paste, 
garlic, herbs, and bacon rind. Bring to simmer on top 
of the stove. Then cover the casserole and set in lower 
third of preheated oven. Regulate heat so liquid sim- 
mers very slowly for 2!4 to 3 hours. The meat is done 
when a fork pierces it easily. 


While the beef is cooking, prepare the onions and 
mushrooms. Set them aside until needed. 


When the meat is tender, pour the contents of the 
casserole into a sieve set over a saucepan. Wash out 
the casserole and return the beef and bacon to it. 
Distribute the cooked onions and mushrooms over — 
the meat. 


BEEF STEWS 317 


Skim fat off the sauce. Simmer sauce for a minute or 

two, skimming off additional fat as it rises. You 

should have about 214 ‘cups of sauce thick enough to 

coat a spoon lightly. If too thin, boil it down rapidly. 
If too thick, mix in a few tablespoons of stock or 

canned bouillon. Taste carefully for seasoning. Pour 
. the sauce over the meat and vegetables. 

(*) Recipe may be completed in advance to this point. 


Parsley sprigs FOR IMMEDIATE SERVING: Cover the casserole and sim- 
mer for 2 to 3 minutes, basting the meat and vege- 
tables with the sauce several times. Serve in its cas- 
serole, or arrange the stew on a platter surrounded 
with potatoes, noodles, or rice, and decorated with 
parsley. 


FOR LATER SERVING: When cold, cover and refrigerate. 
About 15 to 20 minutes before serving, bring to the 
simmer, cover, and simmer very slowly for 10 minutes, 
occasionally basting the meat and vegetables with the 
sauce. 


CARBONNADES A LA FLAMANDE 


[Beef and Onions Braised in Beer | 


Beer is typical for the Belgian braise, and gives a quite different character 
to beef than the red wine of the bourguignon. A bit of brown sugar masks the 
beer’s slightly bitter quality, and a little vinegar at the end gives character. 
Serve this with parsley potatoes or buttered noodles, a green salad, and beer. 

For 6 people 
A 3-lb. piece of lean beef Preheat oven to 325 degrees. Cut the beef into slices 

from the chuck roast or about 2 by 4 inches across and 4 inch thick. Dry on 

rump paper towels. Put a 146-inch layer of fat or oil in the 
2 to 3 Tb rendered fresh skillet and heat until almost smoking. Brown the beef 
pork fat or good cooking slices quickly, a few at a time, and set them aside. 


oil 
A heavy skillet 


122 lbs. or 6 cups of sliced Reduce heat to moderate. Stir the onions into the fat 


onions in the skillet, adding more fat if necessary, and brown 
Salt and pepper the onions lightly for about 10 minutes, stirring fre- 
4 cloves mashed garlic quently. Remove from heat, season with salt and pep- 


per, and stir in the garlic. 


318 


A 9- to 10-inch fireproof cas- 
serole about 3/2 inches 
deep 

Salt and pepper 


1 cup strong beef stock or 
canned beef bouillon 

2 to 3 cups light beer, Pilsner 
type 

2 Tb light brown sugar 

1 large herb bouquet: 6 
parsley sprigs, 1 bay leaf, 
and 14 tsp thyme tied in 
cheesecloth 


114 Tb arrowroot or corn- 
starch blended with 2 Tb 


wine vinegar 


Parsley potatoes or buttered 
noodles 
Parsley sprigs 


CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


Arrange half the browned beef in the casserole and 
season lightly with salt and pepper. Spread half the 
onions over the beef. Repeat with the rest of the beef 
and onions. 


ew 
‘ 


Heat the stock or bouillon in the browning skillet, 
scraping up coagulated cooking juices. Pour it over 
the meat. Add eñough beer so the meat is barely 
covered. Stir in the brown sugar. Bury the herb 
bouquet among the meat slices. Bring casserole to the 
simmer on top of the stove. Then cover the casserole 
and place in lower third of preheated oven. Regulate 
heat so liquid remains at a very slow simmer for 2!4 
hours at the end of which time the meat should be 
fork-tender. 


Remove herb bouquet. Drain the cooking liquid out 
of the casserole into a saucepan, and skim off fat. 
Beat the starch and wine vinegar mixture into the 
cooking liquid and simmer for 3 to 4 minutes. Care- 
fully correct seasoning. You should have about 2 cups 
of sauce. Pour the sauce back over the meat. 

(*) May be prepared in advance to this point. 


When ready to serve, cover the casserole and simmer 


slowly for 4 to 5 minutes until the meat is thoroughly 
heated through. Either bring the casserole to the table, 
or arrange the meat on a hot serving platter, spoon the 
sauce over it, surround with potatoes or noodles, and 
decorate with parsley. 


x PAUPIETTES DE BOEUF 
ROULADES DE BOEUF 
PETITES BALLOTINES DE BOEUF 
| Braised Stuffed Beef Rolls] 


Paupiettes are thin slices of beef wrapped around a filling, and braised in 
wine and stock with herbs and aromatic vegetables. Although they follow the 
same general pattern as other fricassees of beef, their pork and veal stuffing 
gives them a special character. Paupiettes can be cooked in advance, and any 
leftovers may be reheated or may be served cold. Accompany hot paupiettes 


BEEF STEWS 


319 


with rice, risotto, or noodles, and a garniture of sautéed mushrooms, braised 
onions, and carrots, or with buttered green peas or green beans, broiled to- 
matoes, and French bread. Serve a good simple red wine such as Beaujolais, 
Cotes du Rhone, Chianti, or a rosé. 


12 cup finely minced onions ~ 


1 Tb butter 
A 3-quart mixing bowl 


6 ounces lean pork ground 
with 6 ounces lean veal 
and 3 ounces fresh pork 
fat, making about 114 
cups ground meat 

A wooden spoon 

x clove mashed garlic 

Vs tsp thyme 

Pinch of allspice 

Big pinch of pepper 

14 tsp salt 

14 cup chopped parsley 


I egg 


212 lbs. lean beef (top round 
or chuck) cut into 18 
cross-grain slices 1⁄4 inch 
thick and about 3 inches 
in diameter 

Salt and pepper 

White string 


2 to 3 Tb rendered pork fat 
or good cooking oil 

A heavy fireproof casserole 
about ro inches in diame- 
ter and 2/2 to 3 inches 


deep 


For about 18 paupiettes serving 6 people 


Cook the onions slowly in butter for 7 to 8 minutes 
until they are tender but not browned. Scrape them 
into the mixing bowl. 


Add all ingredients at the left to the mixing bowl and 


beat vigorously with a wooden spoon until thoroughly 


blended. 


Flatten each slice of beef to a thickness of .% inch by 


pounding it between 2 sheets of waxed paper with 
a wooden mallet or rolling pin. Lay the meat flat on a 
board and sprinkle lightly with salt and pepper. 
Divide the stuffing into 18 portions and place one on 
the lower third of each slice. Roll the meat around the 
stuffing to form cylinders about 4 inches long and 114 
inches thick. Secure each with 2 ties of string. Dry in 
paper towels. 





Preheat oven to 325 degrees. 


Heat the fat or oil in the casserole until almost smok- 
ing. Brown the paupiettes lightly, a few at a time, and 
remove to a side dish. Lower heat to moderate and 
brown the vegetables slowly for 4 to 5 minutes, stir- 
ring. Then add the flour and brown it slowly for 2 to 
3 minutes. Remove casserole from heat and im- 


320 


14 cup sliced carrots 

12 cup sliced onions 

3 Tb flour 

1 cup dry white wine or dry 
white vermouth 

1% cups brown stock or 
canned beef bouillon 


A 4-inch square of fresh 
pork rind, bacon rind or 
salt-pork rind, simmered 
10 minutes in a quart of 
water, then drained 

1 large herb bouquet plus 2 
cloves of garlic: 6 parsley 
sprigs, 1 bay leaf, 1⁄2 tsp 
thyme, and the garlic tied 
together in cheesecloth 


Bulb baster 


x Tb prepared mustard of 
the strong Dijon type 
blended with 1⁄4 cup whip- 
ping cream 

A wire whip 


Parsley sprigs 


CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


mediately beat in the wine, then the stock or bouillon. 





Lay rind in the bottom of the casserole. Place the 
paupiettes over it, and add more stock or bouillon, or 
water, if necessary, to the liquid in the casserole so 
paupiettes are barely covered. Add the herb bouquet. 





Bring to the simmer on top of the stove. Cover the 
casserole and set in lower third of preheated oven. 
Regulate heat so the paupiettes simmer very slowly 
for 1% hours. Baste them two or three times with the 
liquid in the casserole. 


Remove the paupiettes to a side dish and cut off 
trussing strings. Strain the cooking liquid into a 
saucepan and degrease thoroughly. Boil down the 
sauce if necessary, to concentrate its flavor. You should 
have 114 to 2 cups thick enough to coat a spoon 
lightly. Correct seasoning. 


Off heat, beat the mustard and cream into the sauce. 


Simmer for 1 minute. Rearrange the paupiettes in the 
casserole or a fireproof serving dish, and pour the 
sauce over them. 

(*) Recipe may be prepared in advance to this point. 
Film top of sauce with a spoonful of stock or melted 
butter. When cold, cover and refrigerate. 





About 10 minutes before serving, reheat barely to the 
simmer on top of the stove. Cover and simmer slowly 
for 5 minutes or so, basting the paupiettes frequently 
with the sauce. Serve from the casserole, or arratige 
the paupiettes on a platter, spoon the sauce over them, 


BEEF STEWS 


321 


and surround with rice or noodles. Decorate with 


parsley. 





VARIATIONS 


Prepare, brown, and braise the paupiettes as in the preceding recipe but 
use the sauce ingredients and techniques outlined either for the boeuf bour- 
guignon on page 315, or for the carbonnades à la flamande on page 317. 


BOEUF A LA CATALANE 


[Beef Stew with Rice, Onions, and Tomatoes | 


Here is a hearty dish from the Spanish-Mediterranean corner of France. 
Serve it with a green salad, French bread, and a strong, young red wine. 


For 6 people 


A %-lb. chunk of bacon 

2 Tb olive oil 

A heavy, 10-inch skillet 

A slotted spoon 

A 3-quart fireproof casserole 
about 3 inches deep 


3 lbs. lean stewing beef cut 
into squares 272 inches 
across and x inch thick 
(see cuts listed on page 


315) 


1, cups sliced onions 


1 cup clean, unwashed, raw 
white rice 


1 cup dry white wine or dry 
white vermouth 


Preheat oven to 325 degrees. 


Remove rind and cut bacon into lardons (14-inch 


strips, % of an inch thick.) Simmer in 1 quart of 
water for 10 minutes. Drain, dry, and brown lightly 
in oil in the skillet. Remove with a slotted spoon to 
the casserole. 


Dry the meat on paper towels. Heat fat in skillet until 


almost smoking then brown the meat a few pieces at a 
time. Place it when browned in the casserole. 


Lower heat to moderate, and brown the onions lightly. 


Remove them with a slotted spoon and add to the 
casserole. 


Still in the same fat, stir the rice over moderate heat 
for 2 to 3 minutes until it turns a milky color. Scrape 
into a bowl and set aside until later. 


Pour any remaining fat out of the skillet, add the 


wine and stir for a moment over heat to dissolve 
coagulated cooking juices. Pour into the casserole. 


322 


2 to 3 cups beef stock or 
canned beef bouillon 

Salt to taste 

l4 tsp pepper 

a cloves mashed garlic 

14 tsp thyme 

Pinch of saffron 

1 crumbled bay leaf 


1 lb. ripe, red tomatoes, 
peeled, seeded, juiced, and 
chopped, page 505 (this 
will make about 114 cups 
tomato pulp) 


Sautéed rice from above 
Stock or canned bouillon if 
necessary 


1 cup (4 ounces) grated 
Swiss or Parmesan cheese 


CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


Add stock or bouillon almost to the height of the 


meat. Salt lightly. Stir in the pepper, garlic, and 
herbs. Bring to simmer on top of the stove, cover 
tightly, and set in lower position of preheated oven 
to simmer slowly for 1 hour. 


Remove casserole from oven. Stir in the tomatoes, 
bring to simmer on top of the stove, cover, and re- 
turn to the oven for an additional hour or so of very 
slow simmering. When the meat is almost fork- 
tender, remove casserole from oven. Raise oven heat 
to 375 degrees. 


Tilt casserole and skim off fat. You should have 2 to 


24 cups of liquid; add more stock or bouillon, or 
water, if necessary. Stir in the rice. Bring to simmer 
on top of stove, cover, and set again in lower third of 
oven. Regulate heat to keep liquid at a full simmer 
for 20 minutes so the rice will cook. Do not stir the 
rice. At the end of this time it should be tender and 
have absorbed almost all the liquid. Remove from 
oven and correct seasoning. 

(*) May be prepared in advance to this point. Set 
aside, cover askew. To reheat, cover casserole and 


place in a pan of boiling water for about half an hour. 


Just before serving, delicately fold the cheese with a 
fork into the hot beef and rice. Serve from the cas- 
serole or on a hot platter. 





x DAUBE DE BOEUF 
ESTOUFFADE DE BOEUF 
TERRINE DE BOEUF 
[Casserole of Beef with Wine and Vegetables - Hot or Cold] 


? 


Daube comes from daubière, a covered casserole. Estouffade is a stifling 
or smothering, in a covered casserole. Almost every region of France has its 
own daubes, estouffades, and terrines. Some of them are for a whole piece of 


BEEF STEWS 


329 


braised beef; others are like a boeuf bourguignon. In many the meat is larded, 
and in most it is marinated in wine with vegetables before the cooking begins. 
Here is a savory, country-style daube, an informa! main dish to serve with 
boiled potatoes, risotto, or noodles, a green salad, and a simple red wine or a 


chilled rosé. 


Note: We have not directed that the meat be larded, but you may do so 
if you wish, by inserting two 44-inch strips of larding pork or blanched bacon 
through each piece of meat. You may also omit the marination of the meat, 
and add all the marinade ingredients to the casserole with the beef. 


For 6 people 


3 Ibs. lean stewing beef cut 
into 24-inch squares, x 
inch thick (beef cuts are 
listed on page 315) 

A large glazed earthenware 
bowl 

1¥% cups dry white wine, 
dry white vermouth, or 
red wine 

Optional: 1⁄4 cup brandy, 
eau de vie, or gin 

2 Tb olive oil 

2 tsp salt 

Ya tsp pepper 

12 tsp thyme or sage 

1 crumbled bay leaf 

2 cloves mashed garlic 

2 cups thinly sliced onions 

2 cups thinly sliced carrots 


12 Ib. lean bacon cut into 
x-inch slices % inch thick 
and 2 inches long approxi- 
mately 

144 cups (6 ounces) sliced 
fresh mushrooms 

122 lbs. ripe, red tomatoes, 
peeled, seeded, juiced, and 
chopped, page 505 (this 
will make about 21⁄4 cups 
tomato pulp) 


Place the beef in the bowl and mix with the wine, 


optional spirits, olive oil, seasonings, herbs, and vege- 
tables. Cover and marinate at least 3 hours (6 if re- 
frigerated), stirring up frequently. 


Simmer the bacon for 10 minutes in 2 quarts of water. 


Drain and dry. Prepare the mushrooms and tomatoes. 


324 


A 5- to 6-quart fireproof cas- 
serole 3/2 inches deep 
1 cup sifted flour on a plate 


1 to a cups beef stock or 
canned beef bouillon 


VARIATION 


CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


Remove the beef from the marinade and drain in a 


sieve. 
Preheat oven to 325 degrees. 


Line the bottom of the casserole with 3 or 4 strips of 
bacon. Strew a handful of the marinade vegetables, 
mushrooms, and tomatoes over them. Piece by piece, 
roll the beef in the flour and shake off excess. Place 
closely together in a layer over the vegetables. Cover 
with a few strips of bacon, and continue with layers 
of vegetables, beef, and bacon. End with a layer of 
vegetables and 2 or 3 strips of bacon. 


Pour in the wine from the marinade and enough 
stock or bouillon almost to cover the contents of the 
casserole. Bring to simmer on top of the stove, cover 
closely, and set in lower third of preheated oven. 
Regulate heat so liquid simmers slowly for 244 to 3 
hours. The meat is done when a fork pierces it easily. 


Tip casserole and skim out fat. Correct seasoning. 
(*) May be prepared ahead and reheated, and is good 
either hot or cold. 


Daube de Boeuf à la Provençale 


[Casserole of Beef with Garlic and Anchovy Sauce] 


This is the same daube given a Provençal flavoring at the end. Any cold 
leftovers are delicious, served with a green salad and French bread. Follow the 
master recipe with these additions: 


10 flat anchovy filets packed 
in olive oil 

a Tb capers 

A table fork 


3 Tb wine vinegar 


Using a fork, mash the anchovies and capers to a 
paste in a bowl. Beat in the other ingredients. After 
the daube has cooked for 214 hours remove it from 
the oven and skim off the fat. Pour on the anchovy — 
mixture and baste the beef with the cooking juicés in 


BEEF SAUTÉS 325 


3 Tb olive oil from the the casserole. Cover and return to oven until the meat 
anchovy can and/or plain is tender. 
olive oil 

2 cloves mashed garlic 

V4 cup minced parsley. 

Bulb baster 





BEEF SAUTES 
Sauté de Boeuf 
* SAUTE DE BOEUF A LA PARISIENNE 


[Beef Sauté with Cream and Mushroom Sauce] 


This sauté of beef is good to know about if you have to entertain impor- 
tant guests in a hurry. It consists of small pieces of filet sautéed quickly to a 
nice brown outside and a rosy center, and served in a sauce. The following 
recipe can easily be prepared in 30 minutes, or in less than half the time if the 
meat has been sliced and the mushrooms sautéed ahead. In the variations at 
the end of the recipe, all the sauce ingredients may be prepared in advance. If 
the whole dish is cooked ahead of time, be very careful indeed in its reheating 
that the beef does not overcook. The cream and mushroom sauce here is a 
French version of beef Stroganoff, but less tricky as it uses fresh rather than 
sour cream, so you will not run into the problem of curdled sauce. 

Serve the beef in a casserole, or on a platter surrounded with steamed rice, 
risotto, or potato balls sautéed in butter. Buttered green peas or beans could 
accompany it, and a good red Bordeaux wine. 


For 6 people 





14 lb. sliced fresh mush- Following directions on page 513, sauté the mush- 


rooms rooms in the skillet in hot butter and oil for 4 to 5 
A heavy, 9- to 10-inch en- minutes to brown them lightly. Stir in the shallots or 
ameled skillet onions, and cook for a minute longer. Season the 


2 Tb butter and 1 Tb good mushrooms, and scrape them into a side dish. 
cooking oil 

3 Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 

14 tsp salt and a pinch of 


Pepper 


326 


212 lbs. filet of beef; the 
tenderloin butt and the 
tail of the filet are usu- 
ally used (see illustrations, 


page 290) 
2 Tb butter and 1 Tb cook- 


ing oil, more if needed 


1%, cup Madeira (best 
choice), or dry white ver- 
mouth 

34 cup good brown stock or 
canned beef bouillon 

1 cup whipping cream 

2 tsp cornstarch blended 
with 1 tablespoon of the 
cream 


Salt and pepper 


2 Tb softened butter 
Parsley sprigs 


CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


Remove all surrounding fat and filament, and cut the 


filet into 2-ounce pieces, about 2 inches across and 
14 inch thick. Dry thoroughly on paper towels. 


\ No 


Place the butter and oil in.the skillet and set over 


moderately high héat. When the butter foam begins 
to subside, sauté the beef, a few pieces at a time, for 
2 to 3 minutes on each side to brown the exterior but 
keep the interior rosy red. Set the beef on a side dish, 
and discard sautéing fat. 


Pour the wine and stock or bouillon into the skillet 


and boil it down rapidly, scraping up coagulated 
cooking juices, until liquid is reduced to about 14 cup. 
Beat in the cream, then the cornstarch mixture. Sim- 
mer a minute. Add the sautéed mushrooms and sim- 
mer a minute more. The sauce should have a slight 
liaison (be lightly thickened). Taste carefully for 
seasoning. 


Season the beef lightly with salt and pepper and re- 


turn it to the skillet along with any juices which may 
have escaped. Baste the beef with the sauce and mush- 
rooms; or transfer everything to a serving casserole. 


When you are ready to serve, cover the skillet or cas- 


serole and heat to below the simmer for 3 to 4 minutes, 
being very careful not to overdo it or the pieces of 
filet will be well done rather than rare. Off heat and 
just before serving, tilt casserole, add butter to sauce 
a bit at a time while basting the meat until the butter 
has absorbed. Decorate with parsley, and serve at 
once. 





VARIATIONS 


Sauté de Boeuf à la Bourguignonne 


[Beef Sauté with Red Wine, Mushrooms, Bacon, and Onions] EL. 


For 6 people 


BEEF SAUTÉS 


2% lbs. filet of beef pre- 
pared and sautéed as in 
preceding master recipe 

A 3-ounce chunk blanched 
bacon, page 15 

122 cups red wine 


1¥% cups brown stock or 


canned beef bouillon 
1 clove mashed garlic 
1 Tb tomato paste 
V4 tsp thyme 


1 Tb flour mashed to a paste 
with 1 Tb butter—beurre 
manié 

A wire whip 


18 small braised onions, 
page 481 

12 Ib. sliced mushrooms 
sautéed in butter, page 
513 

Salt and pepper 

A fireproof serving casserole 


2 Tb softened butter 
Parsley sprigs 


Sem 


Sauté the beef and set it aside. Cut the blanched bacon 


into r-inch strips 14 of an inch thick. Brown lightly in 
the sauté skillet and pour out fat. Add rest of in- 
gredients at left and slowly boil down by half. 


Remove from heat and beat in the flour-butter paste. 


Simmer for 1 minute, beating with wire whip. 


Add onions and mushrooms and simmer 2 minutes. 
‘Correct seasoning. Season the sautéed beef, and ar- 


range it and the sauce, bacon, and vegetables in the 
serving casserole. 

(*) Recipe may be prepared ahead to this point. Set 
casserole aside uncovered. 


When ready to serve, cover and reheat at below sim- 


mer for 3 to 4 minutes. Off heat, add the butter by 
bits, basting the meat and vegetables with the sauce 
until the butter has absorbed. Decorate with parsley 
and serve immediately. 


Sauté de Boeuf à la Provençale 
[Beef Sauté with Fresh Tomato Sauce, Olives, and Herbs] 


For 6 people 


2% lbs. filet of beef 


174 cup dry white wine or 
dry white vermouth 


Cut and sauté the beef as described in the preceding 
master recipe. Remove to a side dish. 


Pour the fat out of the sauté skillet and pour in the 
wine. Boil it down rapidly until reduced to 2 table- 


328 CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


2 cups fresh tomato purée spoons, scraping up coagulated sauté juices. Add the 
with garlic and herbs, tomato purée and simmer a moment. Then add the 
page 78 sautéed beef and reheat without simmering. Decorate 

14 cup pitted black olives, with olives and herbs or parsley, and serve immedi- 
preferably the dryish ately. 5 
Mediterranean type 

a Tb mixed fresh green 
herbs, or parsley Bs 





LAMB AND MUTTON 
Agneau et Mouton 


American scientific methods have achieved the miracle of our growing 
some of the world’s finest wines, and this same approach has worked tremen- 
dous improvements in chicken raising, as well as in the cross-breeding, feeding, 
and raising of lamb. We can now buy large young lamb, 5 to 7 months old, 
all through the year. From mid-February through April we get lamb grown 
in the Imperial Valley of California, from May through July it comes from 
Nevada and Idaho, mountain lamb from Colorado comes to us in the fall, and 
winter lamb is raised in Ohio and Iowa. Furthermore, over 90 percent of the 
lamb we see in our big supermarkets has the purple USDA inspection stamps 
that guarantee a healthy animal, as well as the official grading stamp CHOICE. 
A whole leg averages 8 to 9 pounds—2 or more pounds over the old average— 
and makes wonderful eating. 

The old labels of spring lamb, milk-fed lamb, and mutton do not apply 
at all anymore to commercially raised American lamb, but because this is a 
book of classic French cooking, it is good to know the traditional terminology, 
and you may still find that these labels apply among private meat purveyors 
and individual raisers. (Imported lamb from Australia and New Zealand is 
raised from a smaller breed of animal, and always comes to us frozen.) 


TRADITIONAL TERMS FOR LAMB AND MUTTON 

Hothouse Lamb, Milk-fed Lamb—Agneau de Lait, Agneau de Pauillac. 
Very young lamb raised, like veal, on milk, and considered a prime delicacy. 
Roast it whole with one of the stuffings on pages’ 336 to 338, or cut it up and 
brown with a mustard coating, like that on the broiled chicken, page 265. You 
may find this in ethnic Greek or Italian markets around Easter time. 

Genuine Spring Lamb, Milk-finished Lamb—Agneau Pascal. Lamb that ` 
is 3 to 4 months old with delicate, pale red flesh. You’d have to order this from 


LEG OF LAMB 329 


a private breeder or purveyor. Roast, broil, or grill it, stew it en blanquette like 
veal, page 362, or poach it, page 342. 

Lamb—Agneau. Young lamb, ideally from 5:to 7 months old, the kind 
we buy today in our large markets. The best French lamb, by the way, has 
always been considered to be from those fed on the salty grasses of the northern 
coastal areas, les près salés. 

Mutton—Mouton. No longer lamb, from between 12 months and 2 years 
old, it is mutton. Full-flavored and in need of proper aging, mutton is roasted 
like lamb, or the chops are broiled, and the rest makes mutton stew. Unfortu- 
nately it is rare to find mutton anywhere today, even in France. 


LEG OR SHOULDER OF LAMB 


Gigot ou Epaule de Pré-salé 


PREPARING A LEG OF LAMB FOR COOKING 


Trim off all but a thin layer of fat, and remove any loose fat. Shave off 
the purple inspection stamps. 





| 
| WHOLE LEG | 


| (Gigot entier) | 
Le g of Lamb sIRLOIN | FRENCH LEG | 
(Selle) | (Gigot Racourci) | 


Bone Structure and 
Cutting Methods 







PELVIC BONE 
(Os du Quasi) 


SACRUM and TAIL RUMP KNUCKLE BONE 
(Sacrum et Queue) 








In the following recipes, a 6-pound leg of lamb means the French leg, 
without the sirloin, since the whole 9-pound leg is more than the average oven 
wants; however, the whole leg roasts in almost the same amount of time. 


330 CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


Although some meat fanciers object to any tampering at all with a leg of lamb, 
carving is much easier if some of the bones are removed. The tail and the pelvic 
bone may be cut out, and the meat sewn or skewered together to cover the rump 
knucklebone. Or if you wish only the shank to remain after the pelvic bone 
has been removed, the leg bone may be taken from inside the meat without 
making an outside incision; the meat is then sewn or skewered at the large 
end. If the leg is boned entirely, then rolled and tied, it makes a compact roast 
which may be cooked on a spit. Most butchers will perform any of these opera- 
tions for you, but they are not too difficult.to manage by yourself. The bones 
and trimmings may be turned into a good sauce for your roast, see sauce ra- 
gout, page 69. 
FLAVORINGS AND STUFFINGS 

For a mild garlic flavor, insert 3 or 4 slivers of garlic in the meat at the 
shank end. For a more pronounced flavor, make several incisions in the meat 
and insert more garlic slivers. See also the garlic and herb stuffing and other 
suggestions for boned lamb beginning on page 336, and the herbal-mustard 
coating on page 335. 


SHOULDER OF LAMB 


Shoulder of lamb in America is one half the forequarter of lamb, minus 
the lower part of the ribs and the shank. It thus forms a square shape, and con- 
sists of the upper leg, all or part of the shoulder blade, 3 to 5 shoulder chops, 
and 2 or 3 vertebrae in the neck. Whole, it weighs 4 to 6 pounds; boned, a third 
less, or 2/4 to 4 pounds. In France the shank is considered to be part of the 
shoulder, but not the chops. So if you are living there and want to stuff a shoul- 
. der of lamb, ask that some of the shoulder chops, côtes découvertes, be included. 
Otherwise there will be little room for your stuffing. When the shoulder is 
boned, the fell or top filament, is left intact to form a covering for the roast. 
After boning, the shoulder may be rolled, tied, and roasted as is. Or it may be 
stuffed and either rolled and tied into a fat cylindrical shape, or formed into a 
square cushion roast. Boned shoulder may be substituted for leg of lamb in 
any of the recipes in this section. 


è 


TIMING FOR ROAST LAMB AND MUTTON 
Lamb and mutton cooked in the French manner are seared for 15 min- 


utes in a 450-degree oven, then the roasting is continued in a 350-degree oven 
until the meat is frankly rare, rosy, and juicy. If you prefer lamb well done, 


LEG OF LAMB 331I 


do not go over a meat-thermometer reading of 160 degrees or the meat will 
lose much of its juice and flavor. Medium, from bright to pale pink, would be 
140 to 150. A boned leg or shoulder will weigh approximately 30 per cent less 
than a bone-in piece, but its cooking time per pound usually more than doubles, 
depending on the thickness of the meat. The estimates in the following list 
are based on unchilled meat, and the recipes refer to unboned meat unless 
otherwise specified. 
A 6-pound leg or shoulder, bone in 
Rare—1 to 1% hours (10 to 12 minutes per pound) 
| Meat Thermometer Reading—125 to 130 degrees 
Medium to Well Done—1'4 to 1% hours (13 to 15 minutes per pound) 
Meat Thermometer Reading—145 to 160 degrees 
À 4-pound piece of boned and rolled leg or shoulder 
Rare—1% to 2 hours (25 to 30 minutes per pound) 
Meat Thermometer Reading—125 to 130 degrees 
Medium to Well Done—2 to 214 hours (30 to 35 minutes per pound) 
Meat Thermometer Reading—145 to 160 degrees 


VEGETABLE SUGGESTIONS FOR ROAST LAMB 
Beans 


Gigot, haricots—lamb and beans—are a favorite combination. The beans 
may be plain buttered green beans, page 444, or green beans and fresh shell 
beans (otherwise known as white or cranberry beans), or the dried beans on 
page 400. A mixture of the two is called haricots panachés. Another suggestion 
is green beans with tomatoes, page 447. Additional bean recipes are in the 
Bean section, pages 442 to 447. 


Potatoes 

With plain buttered green vegetables you could serve one of the potato 
casseroles, pages 523 to 526, or the garlic mashed potatoes on page 520. Potatoes 
sautéed in butter, page 526, go with either plain or sauced vegetables. 


Other vegetables 

Rice with mushrooms, page 531, could be accompanied by one of the 
recipes for peas, pages 461 to 467, and baked tomatoes, page 506. 

Tomatoes stuffed with herbs or mushrooms, page 507, green beans, and 
sautéed potatoes are always good with roast lamb. 

Eggplant and lamb are an excellent flavor combination. See the eggplant 


332 CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


casserole, ratatouille, page 503, and the eggplant stuffed with mushrooms on 
page 501. 

Brussels sprouts or broccoli, pages 449 to 456, or cauliflower, pages 456 
to 461, are other ideas. If the vegetables are served plain, you could accompany 
them with one of the potato casseroles on pages 523 to 526. 


TRADITIONAL GARNITURES 
` 


Here are some of the traditional French vegetable combinations for gar- 
nishing a roast of lamb. 

Bruxelloise, braised endive, page 493, Brussels sprouts braised in butter, 
page 451, potatoes sautéed in butter, page 526. 

Chételaine, quartered artichoke hearts braised in butter, page 431, whole 
baked tomatoes, page 506, braised celery, page 491, potatoes sautéed in butter, 
page 526. 

Clamart, cooked artichoke hearts, page 431, filled with buttered peas, 
page 462, potatoes sautéed in butter, page 526 

Florian, braised lettuce, page 489, brown-braised onions, page 483, carrots 
braised in butter, page 477, potatoes sautéed in butter, page 526 

Judic, tomatoes stuffed with herbs or mushrooms, page 507, braised let- 
tuce, page 489, potatoes sautéed in butter, page 526 

Provençale, whole baked tomatoes, page 506, baked stuffed mushrooms, 
page 516 

Viroflay, spinach braised with stock or cream, page 470, quartered arti- 
choke hearts braised in butter, page 431, potatoes sautéed in butter, page 526 


WINE SUGGESTIONS 


| Red wine goes with lamb and mutton. A light red, such as Bordeaux- 
Médoc, is best with the delicate flavor of young spring lamb. Serve a stronger 
red, such as Bordeaux-St. Emilion, with more mature lamb. Mutton, or lamb 
roasted with a strong, herbal stuffing or mustard coating, calls for a sturdier 
wine, Côtes du Rhône or Burgundy. 





x GIGOT DE PRE-SALE ROTI 
[Roast Leg of Lamb] 


For 8 to 10 people 


Preheat oven to 450 degrees, 


LEG OF LAMB 


A 6-lb. leg of lamb 


4 Tb rendered fresh pork or 
beef fat, or a mixture of 
melted butter and cook- 


ing oil 
A roasting pan 1!2 inches 
deep and just large 


enough to hold the meat 
A rack to fit the pan 
A bulb baster or long-han- 
dled spoon 


A meat thermometer 

1 large carrot, roughly sliced 

1 large onion, roughly sliced 

Optional: 3 to 6 cloves un- 
peeled garlic, added to pan 
12 hour before end of 
cooking 


1 tsp salt 
1⁄4 tsp pepper 
A hot platter 


1 cup stock, brown lamb 
stock, or canned beef 
bouillon 


A hot sauceboat 


Water cress or parsley 
Hot plates 


333 


Prepare the lamb for cooking as described in the pre- 
ceding paragraphs, and wipe it dry with paper towels. 


Brush the lamb with ale fat or butter and oil. 


Place it on the rack in the roasting pan and set in 
the upper third of the preheated oven. Turn and 


« baste it every 4 to 5 minutes for 15 to 20 minutes, 


or until it has browned lightly on all sides. This sears 
the outside of the meat and prevents its juices from 
bursting out. 


Reset oven for 350 degrees. Insert a meat thermometer 


into the fleshiest part of the lamb. Strew the vegetables 
in the bottom of the pan. Set lamb in middle level of 
oven and roast until done. Basting is not necessary. 


Total Cooking Time 
Rare, 1 to 14 hours, 125 to 130 degrees. Meat is 
slightly resistant when pressed, and if the meat is 
pricked deeply with a fork, the juices run rosy red. 
Medium, 114 to 114 hours, 145 to 150 degrees. Meat 
is firmer when pressed, juices run a pale rose 
when meat is pricked. 


Discard any trussing strings or skewers. Season the 
lamb, and place it on a platter. It should rest at room 
temperature for 20 to 30 minutes before being carved, 
to let its juices retreat back into the tissues. 


Remove the rack, and spoon the cooking fat out of the 
pan. Pour in the stock or bouillon and boil rapidly, 
scraping up coagulated roasting juices and mashing 
the vegetables into the stock. Taste for seasoning. Just 
before serving, strain into a hot sauceboat, pressing 
the juices out of the vegetables. Stir in any juices 
which may have escaped from the roast. 


Decorate the roast with water cress or parsley, and be 
sure to serve the lamb on hot plates as lamb fat con- 
geals when cold. 


554 


CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


VARIATION: OTHER SAUCES 


The preceding directions are for a deglazing sauce which furnishes about 


a spoonful per serving. If you wish more sauce, prepare in advance 2 to 3 cups 


of sauce ragoût with the lamb bones and trimmings, page 69. Omit the stock 


in the master recipe and stir the sauce into the degreased roasting juices; sim- 


mer a moment, and pour into a sauceboat. 


Sauce Spéciale à lV’ Ail pour Gigot 


[Garlic Sauce for Roast Lamb] 


This very good sauce uses a whole head of garlic which, after two blanch- 
ings and a long simmering, becomes tamed and develops a delicious flavor. 
For 114 to 2 cups of sauce 


1 large head of garlic 
A saucepan containing 1 
quart of cold water 


A 1-quart heavy-bottomed 
saucepan 

34 cup milk, more if needed 

w% tsp salt 

14 tsp rosemary or thyme 

1⁄2 Tb raw white rice 


“I cup brown lamb stock, 
beef stock, or canned beef 
bouillon 

A sieve, a bowl, and a wood- 
en spoon, or am electric 
blender 

Salt and pepper 


A hot gravy boat 


Separate the garlic cloves. Bring them to the boil in 
the saucepan and boil 30 seconds. Drain and peel. 
Set again in cold water, bring to the boil, and drain. 


In the saucepan bring the milk, salt, herbs, and rice 


to the simmer. Add the garlic, and simmer very slowly 
for 45 minutes, putting in more milk by spoonfuls if 
the rice is in danger of scorching. 


Pour in the stock or bouillon and simmer 1 minute. 


Then force through a sieve, or purée in the electric 
blender. Correct seasoning. Set sauce aside and reheat 
when needed. 


After the lamb has been roasted as described in the 


master recipe and the roasting pan degreased, deglaze 
the pan with 2 to 3 tablespoons of stock or water, 
scraping up coagulated juices. Strain into the hot 
garlic sauce. Pass the sauce in a hot gravy boat. 


LEG OF LAMB 399 





VARIATION 
Gigot à la Moutarde a 
[Herbal Mustard Coating for Roast Lamb] 


When lamb is brushed with this mixture, garlic slivers and herbal stuff- 
ings are not necessary, and the lamb becomes a beautiful brown as it roasts. 
For a 6-lb. leg of lamb 


72 cup Dijon-type prepared Blend the mustard, soy sauce, garlic, herbs, and ginger 
mustard together in a bowl. Beat in the olive oil by droplets 

2 Tb soy sauce to make a mayonnaise-like cream. 

I clove mashed garlic 

I tsp ground rosemary or 
thyme 

14 tsp powdered ginger 

2 Tb olive oil 


A rubber spatula or brush Paint the lamb with the mixture and set it on the 
rack of the roasting pan. The meat will pick up more 
flavor if it is coated several hours before roasting. 


Roast in a 350-degree oven, 1 to 114 hours, for medium 
rare; or 11⁄4 to 14 hours for well done. The searing 
step at the beginning of the master recipe is omitted. 


x GIGOT OU ÉPAULE DE PRE-SALE, FARCI 
[Stuffed Leg or Shoulder of Lamb] 


Boned leg and shoulder of lamb lend themselves nicely to any of the 
following stuffings, and cold leftovers are particularly good. Lay the boned 
meat skin side down on a flat surface. Season lightly with salt and pepper. 
Spread the stuffing over the meat and into the pockets left by the bones. Then 
roll the meat into a cylindrical shape to enclose the stuffing completely. Sew 
or skewer if necessary, then tie loops of string around its circumference at 
1-inch intervals so the meat will hold its shape. Roast either in the oven or on 
a spit, or braise it as described in the recipe on page 338. The following are for 
3 to 4 pounds of boned meat. 


336 


CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 





Farce aux Herbes 


[Garlic and Herb Stuffing] 


14 cup chopped parsley 

12 tsp ground rosemary or 
thyme 

2 Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 

14 to 1 clove mashed garlic 

14 tsp powdered ginger 

I tsp salt 

74 tsp pepper 





Mix all the ingredients together in a bowl. Spread the 
mixture on the lamb. Roll and tie as described in the 
preceding instrüctiens. 





Farce de Porc 


[Pork and Herb Stuffing] 


34 cup finely minced onions 
2 Tb butter 
A 3-quart mixing bowl 


1 cup fresh white bread 
crumbs (French or home- 
made-type bread) 

Y, cup lukewarm stock or 
canned beef bouillon 


4% lb. (x cup) lean, fresh 
pork ground with 4 
ounces (1⁄2 cup) fresh 
pork fat 

1 clove mashed garlic 

14 tsp ground rosemary, 
sage, or thyme 

14 cup minced parsley 

Pinch of allspice 

12 tsp salt 


Va tsp pepper 


I egg 
A wooden spatula or spoon 


Cook the onions and butter slowly together in a small 


saucepan until tender but not browned. Scrape into a 
mixing bowl. 


Soak the bread crumbs in stock or bouillon for 5 
minutes. Drain in a sieve and press out as much liquid 
as you can. Save the liquid for your sauce, and place 
the bread crumbs in the mixing bowl. 


Add the rest of the ingredients to the mixing bowl 


and beat vigorously with a wooden spoon until well 
mixed. Sauté a teaspoonful until cooked through, and 
taste for seasoning. Add more seasonings to the 
stuffing if you feel it necessary. 

Spread the stuffing on the lamb. Roll and tie as 
described at the beginning of this section. 


LEG OF LAMB 


337 





Farce aux Rognons 


[Rice and Kidney Stuffing] 


14 cup finely minced onions 

1 Tb butter 

Ys cup raw white rice 

7; cup white stock or 
canned chicken bouillon 


12 tsp ground rosemary, 
sage, or thyme 

Pinch of allspice 

V4 tsp pepper 

Y clove mashed garlic 

Salt to taste 


4 lamb kidneys, or a mixture 
of lamb kidneys, heart, 
and liver making about 1 
cup in all 

1 Tb butter and 1 Tb oil 

Salt and pepper 


In a small, heavy-bottomed saucepan, cook the onions 
in butter for 4 to 5 minutes until tender but not 


“browned. Add the rice and stir over low heat for 2 to 3 


minutes until it turns a milky color. Pour in the stock 
or chicken bouillon, bring to a boil, cover, and simmer 
not too slowly for 15 minutes without stirring, at 
which point the liquid should be absorbed and the 


rice almost tender. It will finish cooking in the lamb. 


Fluff in the herbs, spice, pepper, and garlic with a 


fork. Add salt to taste. 


Dry the meat in paper towels, and leave the pieces 
whole. Sauté quickly in hot butter and oil to brown 
very lightly, leaving the interior of the meat rosy. Cut 
into %-inch slices. Season lightly with salt and pepper, 
and fold into the rice. 





When the stuffing is cool, spread it on the lamb. Roll 
and tie the meat as described at the beginning of this 
section. 





VARIATIONS: Other Stuffings Following the General Procedures Outlined 


Farce Duxelles 


[Ham and Mushroom Stuffing] 


14 cup minced onions, cooked in butter 
14 lb. minced fresh mushrooms, cooked in butter 


3/, cup minced, lean boiled ham 


14 cup finely minced fresh pork fat (or ham fat) 


Salt, pepper, herbs 


338 CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


a ——_—— 


Farce aux Olives 
[Olive and Ground Lamb Stuffing] 


12 cup ground lean lamb 

12 cup minced onions, cooked in butter 

1 cup stale white bread crumbs soaked in stock or bouillon and squeezed dry 

12 pitted black Greek olives, simmered 10 minutes in 1 quart of water, drained, and 
chopped 


I egg 
Salt, pepper, herbs, allspice, and garlic 





Farce Mentonnaise 
[Salmon and Anchovy Stuffing] 


An unlikely combination, but a good one 


14 cup drained, canned salmon 

6 drained, mashed anchovies (packed in olive oil) 
2 cup ground lean lamb 

34 cup minced onions, sautéed in butter 

Salt, pepper, herbs, garlic 


GIGOT OU EPAULE DE PRE-SALE BRAISE (aux Haricots) 
[Braised Leg or Shoulder of Lamb—with Beans | 


Braising is a succulent way to do almost mature lamb or young mutton, 
particularly if it has been stuffed with any of the preceding suggestions. Beans 
may finish their cooking with the lamb, and will absorb a fine flavor from the 
braising liquid. If you do not wish to include them, serve with the lamb a 
purée of lentils or chestnuts, mashed potatoes, rice, or risotto. Other vegetables 
to serve with braised lamb are green beans, peas, Brussels sprouts, baked to- 
matoes, or a garniture of glazed carrots, turnips, onions, and sautéed mush- 
rooms. A fairly full red wine goes well—Beaujolais, Bordeaux-St. Emilion, 
Côtes du Rhône, or Burgundy. 


A NOTE ON TIMING 


Almost mature lamb or young mutton is usually braised 40 to 50 minutes 
per pound, long enough for the meat, its stuffing, and the braising liquid to 


LEG OF LAMB 


339 


exchange flavors. This makes 312 to 4 hours for a leg, and around 2% hours 
for a shoulder.. Boned and stuffed lamb will usually take an hour longer. The 
meat is done when a fork pierces it easily. You may, if you wish, cut the time 
in half, and cook the meat only until the thermometer indicates 150 degrees 
for medium rare, or 160 to 165 degrees for well done; in this case, there will 
be little exchange of flavor between the various elements. 

Beans. If you are to use dry white beans, their soaking and precooking 
will take a good two hours. This is done while the lamb is braising. 


For 8 to 10 people 


A 6- to 7-lb. leg or 4- to 5-lb. 
shoulder of lamb, boned, 
and stuffed, if you wish, 
with one of the preceding 
fillings 

The lamb bones, sawed or 
chopped 

3 to 4 Tb rendered fresh 
pork fat or cooking oil 

A heavy fireproof casserole 
or covered roaster just 
large enough to hold all 
ingredients 

2 large sliced carrots 

2 large sliced onions 

2 cups of dry white wine, or 
red wine, or 172 cups dry 
white vermouth 

14 tsp salt 

14 tsp pepper 

3 to 4 cups beef stock or 
canned beef bouillon 

4 parsley sprigs 

1 bay leaf 

1 tsp rosemary, thyme, or 
sage 

3 unpeeled cloves garlic 

Optional: 3 Tb tomato paste 

Aluminum foil 


Preheat oven to 350 degrees. 


Brown the lamb on all sides, and then the bones in hot 
fat or oil in the casserole or roaster. This will take 15 
to 20 minutes. Remove to a side platter. Then brown 
the vegetables for 2 to 3 minutes. Remove them with 
a slotted spoon to the platter. Pour out the browning 
fat. Add the wine or vermouth and boil it down 
rapidly, scraping up coagulated browning juices, un- 
til reduced by half. Season the lamb and place it, its 
fattiest side up, in the casserole or roaster. Surround 
it with the browned bones and vegetables. Pour in 
enough stock or bouillon to come two thirds of the 
way up the meat. Stir in the herbs, garlic, and optional 
tomato paste. Bring to the simmer on top of the 
stove. Lay aluminum foil over the top of the casserole, 
then the casserole cover. Place in lower third of pre- 
heated oven and regulate so liquid is maintained at a 
slow simmer. Turn and baste the meat every half 
hour. 


340 


24% cups dry white Great 
Northern beans 

6% cups boiling water 

A 4-quart kettle 

1% Tb salt 


A hot platter 
Parsley sprigs 
A hot sauceboat 


(*) AHEAD-OF-TIME NOTES 


CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 





Remove the lamb from the casserole when it is to 
within half an hour of being done. (See A Note on 
Timing, at beginning of recipe.) Strain and degrease 
the cooking stock, and correct its seasoning. Return 
meat and stock to the casserole and surround with the 
beans which have been precooked as follows: 


Fr? 


Drop the beans into the boiling water. Bring quickly 
to the boil again and boil exactly 2 minutes. Set aside 
for 1 hour. Immediately the soaking time is up, add 
the salt to the kettle, bring to the simmer, and simmer 
t hour. Set aside. The beans will finish their cooking 
later with the lamb. After the lamb stock has been 
degreased as described in the preceding paragraph, 
drain the beans and add them to the casserole with the 
lamb. 

(*) May be prepared ahead to this point. See note at 
end of recipe. 


Bring the casserole again to the simmer on top of the 
stove. Cover, and return to the oven until the meat is 
tender when pierced with a fork, about 30 minutes. 


Drain the lamb, remove trussing strings, and place it 
on a hot platter. Strain the beans and place them 
around the meat. Decorate with parsley sprigs. De- 
grease the cooking stock, correct seasoning, and pour 
it into a hot sauceboat. 


If you wish to cook the meat in advance, braise it until tender. Then 
strain and degrease the cooking stock and place meat and stock in the casse- 
role. An hour before serving, reheat on top of the stove, then cover and place 
in a 350-degree oven. In 20 minutes, add the beans and continue cooking for 
about 30 minutes more. The meat should reach an internal temperature of 


about 130 degrees. 


Or follow the recipe but carve the meat when it is done. Arrange it in a 
fireproof serving dish or casserole with the beans, and spoon part of the sauce 
over it. Cover and reheat slowly for 10 minutes before serving. 


LEG OF LAMB 341 


GIGOT EN CHEVREUIL | 
[Leg of Lamb or Mutton Marinated in Red Wine] 


A large well-aged leg of lamb or a leg of young mutton marinated for 
several days in wine will taste very much like a marinated leg of venison. It 
is roasted and served, like venison, with a sauce poivrade or chevreuil. Braised 
red cabbage with chestnuts, and a purée of celery root and potatoes go well 
with it, plus a good red Burgundy wine. Any cold sliced leftovers will be de- 
licious. 

Since the meat is marinated for a relatively long period of time, it takes 
on a definitely gamy taste—which is the whole reason for the recipe. The first 
marinade vegetables are cooked, therefore, so they will not turn sour. 


Marinade Cuite 


[Cooked Wine Marinade] 


1 cup thinly sliced onions Cook the vegetables slowly in the olive oil in the 
x cup thinly sliced carrots covered saucepan for 5 minutes without allowing 
14 cup thinly sliced celery them to brown. 
2 halved cloves garlic 
V2 cup olive oil 
A 3-quart enameled sauce- 

pan with cover 


6 cups full-bodied, young Add the wine, the vinegar, and all the rest of the 
red wine: Mâcon, Côtes ingredients. Simmer, partially covered, for 20 minutes. 
du Rhône, Beaujolais, Allow the marinade to cool completely before using it. 
Burgundy, Chianti 

114 cups red wine vinegar 

1 Tb salt 

I tsp peppercorns 

2 cloves 

5 parsley sprigs 

2 bay leaves 

1 Tb rosemary 

1, tsp juniper berries, if 
available, or 1⁄4 cup gin 


342 CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


NN. 


Marinade au Laurier 
[Uncooked Wine Marinade with Bay Leaves] 


$ 





6 cups red wine This alternative marinade needs no cooking, and is 
11⁄2 cups wine vinegar just poured over the lamb. 

12 cup olive oil a 

35 bay leaves 

1 Tb salt 


l2 tsp peppercorns 





Marinating and Roasting the Lamb 


A 7- to 8-pound leg of well Prepare the lamb for cooking as described on page 
aged lamb or young mut- 329. It may be boned if you wish. 
ton 


Place it in an enameled, pyrex, porcelain, or stainless 
steel bowl, roaster, or tub just large enough to hold it. 
Pour the marinade over it. Turn. and baste the lamb 
3 or 4 times a day for 4 to 5 days at room temperature, 
for 6 to 8 days if it is refrigerated. 


Drain the lamb for half an hour or more on a rack. 
Just before roasting, dry it thoroughly with paper 
towels. Following directions in the master recipe for 
roast lamb on page 332, baste it with fat and sear it 
for 15 to 20 minutes in a 450-degree oven, then roast 
it at 350 degrees to a medium rare, 147 to 150 degrees 
on the meat thermometer. 


If you are serving with it a sauce poivrade, page 70, 
or sauce venaison, page 70, include 4 cup of the 
marinade liquid as part of the ingredients. 


GIGOT A L’ANGLAISE 
[Boiled Leg of Lamb with Onion, Caper, or Tomato Sauce] 


The English, according to the French, boil everything, thus anything ] 
boiled (or poached) and served simply is à l'anglaise in French cuisine. This 


LEG OF LAMB 343 


method is truly a delicious and utterly simple way to cook a leg of lamb; sim- 
mer it in salted water until it is done, and it can stay quietly in that hot water 
for an hour or more before serving. But you do neetl a young tender “genuine 
spring leg of lamb” for this because the fat of older lamb penetrates the meat, 
giving it a strong taste. (See lamb discussion, pages 328-9.) 


VEGETABLE AND WINE SUGGESTIONS 


For a family-style vegetable garnish, carrots, turnips, onions, leeks, and 
potatoes may be cooked for an hour with the lamb; tie them in cheesecloth 
bundles for easy removal. For a more formal array, here are some other sug- 
gestions to be cooked separately and combined as you wish: 

Purée of turnips and potatoes, page 487 

Garlic mashed potatoes, page 520 

Soubise (rice and onions), page 485 

Brussels sprouts, pages 449 to 455 

String beans, pages 442 to 447 

Ratatouille (eggplant casserole), page 503 

If you choose onion sauce for the lamb, serve a red Bordeaux from the 
Médoc district. With caper or tomato sauce, serve a chilled rosé. 


For 6 to 8 people 
A 4- to 5-lb. whole leg of Prepare the lamb for cooking as described on page 
genuine spring lamb 329; if a whole leg, remove pelvic bone. 
A meat thermometer Insert a meat thermometer into the fleshiest part of 


A kettle of rapidly boiling the lamb. Plunge the lamb into the boiling, salted 
water, large enough to water. When the water comes back to the simmer, 
hold the lamb completely begin timing 10 to 12 minutes per pound, or about 


submerged x hour (125 to 130 degrees on the thermometer 
14 tsp salt per quart of wa- for rare; 140 to 150 for medium). The water must 
ter remain at a very slow simmer throughout the cooking. 


(*) After the lamb has been removed from the kettle, 
it should cool at room temperature for about 20 
minutes before it is carved. But if it is to be served 
later than that, pour cold water into the kettle to cool 
it to just below 120 degrees, so the lamb will not con- 
tinue to cook. (Add 114 tsp salt per quart of water 
poured into the kettle.) The lamb may rest thus for 
an hour or more, and the kettle may be gently re- 
heated if necessary. 


344 


3 cups of one of the follow- 
ing sauces: 

Sauce aux Câpres (mock 
hollandaise with egg 
yolks, capers, 
and butter), page 65 

Sauce Soubise (béchamel 
with onion purée), page 


cream, 


64 

Coulis de Tomates (fresh 
tomato sauce with 
herbs), page 78 


3 Tb melted butter 

Y% cup minced parsley 
A hot platter 

A warmed sauceboat 


CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 





While the lamb is simmering, prepare the sauce: 5 
minutes or less for caper sauce, about 30 for onion 
sauce, 114 hours of simmering for tomato sauce. 


\ - 


Drain the lamb when you are ready to serve, and 


place it on a hot platter. Baste it with the melted but- 
ter and sprinkle it with parsley. Pass the sauce in a 
warmed sauceboat. 





LAMB STEW 
Ragoúts, Navarins, et Haricots de Mouton 


In France, mutton rather than lamb is preferred for stews because the 
flesh of the more mature animal has more character. But, except for the tender- 
fleshed stewing cuts of “genuine spring lamb” which are best in a blanquette, 
lamb or mutton may be used interchangeably. Ragodt, navarin, and haricot all 
mean stew. Haricot according to most linguists is a corruption of halicoter, to 

_ cut up. It does not therefore mean a lamb stew with beans. Stew meat is very 

inexpensive; one can only wonder why, but be grateful when a dish like a 
navarin is so delicious. Other lamb stews may be made like beef stew, and sug- 
gestions are listed at the end of the zavarin recipe. 


CUTS FOR STEWING 


All of the lamb for a stew may be from the same cut, but a more interest- 
ing texture and sauce will be obtained if you use a mixture from the following 
suggestions. Chop and leg meat are not recommended as they become dry and 
stringy. Count on 1 pound of boneless meat for 2 people if your menu is small; 
for 3, if large. 

Shoulder—Epaule and Basses Côtes. Lean and meaty, a bit dry 

Breast—Poztrine. Provides fat and texture 


LAMB STEW 345 


Short Ribs—Haut de Cételettes. Provide fat and texture, and the bones 
give flavor 


Neck—Collet. Has a gelatinous quality which: gives body to the sauce. 


‘’ PREPARATION FOR COOKING 


Have excess fat and the fell or covering filament removed, and the meat 
cut into 2-inch cubes weighing 2 to 24 ounces. Any bones left in the meat will 
give added flavor to the sauce. Most of them may be removed before serving. 


TIMING 


Allow about 2 hours for the cooking. Stews may be simmered on top of 
the stove but the more uniform and surrounding heat of the oven is preferable. 


X NAVARIN PRINTANIER 
[Lamb Stew with Spring Vegetables] 


Navarin printanier, a most delectable lamb stew with its carrots, onions, 
turnips, potatoes, peas, and green beans, is presumably done in the spring when 
all the vegetables are young and tender. But as it can be made any time of the 
year, it is not a seasonal dish any more thanks to deep freezing. Frozen peas and 
beans are discussed on pages 449 and 466. The written recipe is long as each 
detail is important if the navarin is to taste like a French masterpiece. But 
none of the steps is difficult and everything except the addition of the green 
vegetables at the very end may be made ready in the morning. The stew can 
then be finished in 10 to 15 minutes just before dinner time. 

With the stew serve hot French bread, and a red Beaujolais or Bordeaux 
wine, a chilled rosé, or a fairly full-bodied, dry, chilled white wine such as a 
Macon, Hermitage, or one of the lesser Burgundies. 


For 6 people 


Preheat oven to 450 degrees. 


3 lbs. lamb stew meat (see Cut the lamb into 2-inch cubes and dry with paper 


list preceding recipe) towels. The meat will not brown if it is damp. Brown 
2 to 4 Tb rendered fresh a few pieces at a time in hot fat or oil in the skillet. 
pork fat or cooking oil As they are browned, place them in the casserole. 


A 10- to 12-inch skillet 
A fireproof covered casse- 


346 


role large enough to hold 
the meat, and all the vege- 
tables to come 


1 Tb granulated sugar 


x tsp salt 
14 tsp pepper 
3 Tb flour 


2 to 3 cups brown lamb- or 
beef-stock or canned beef 
bouillon 

34 Ib. ripe, red tomatoes, 
peeled, seeded, juiced, and 
chopped (x cup of pulp), 
page 505; or 3 Tb tomato 
paste 

2 cloves mashed garlic 


V4 tsp thyme or rosemary 
1 bay leaf 


6 to 12 peeled “boiling” 
potatoes 

6 peeled carrots 

6 peeled turnips 

12 to 18 peeled white onions 
about 1 inch in diameter 


CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 





Sprinkle the lamb in the casserole with sugar and toss 
over moderately high heat for 3 to 4 minutes until the 
sugar has caramelized. This will give a fine amber 
color to the sauce. | 





Toss the meat with the salt and pepper, then with the 
flour. Set casserole uncovered in middle level of pre- 
heated oven for 4 to 5 minutes. Toss the meat and 
return it to the oven for 4 to 5 minutes more. This 
browns the flour evenly and coats the lamb with a 
light crust. Remove casserole and turn oven down to 
350 degrees. 


Pour out the fat; add 2 cups of stock or bouillon to 
the sauté skillet. Bring to the boil and scrape up coagu- 
lated sauté juices. Then pour the liquid into the cas- 
serole. Bring to the simmer for a few seconds shaking 
and stirring to mix liquid and flour. Add the tomatoes 
or tomato paste and the other ingredients. Bring to 
the simmer for 1 minute, then add more stock if 
necessary; meat should be almost covered by liquid. 


Put the lid on the casserole and set in lower third of 
preheated oven; regulate heat so casserole simmers 
slowly and regularly for 1 hour. Then pour the con- 
tents of the casserole into a sieve set over a bowl. 
Rinse out the casserole. Remove any loose bones and 
return the lamb to the casserole. Skim the fat off the 
sauce in the bowl, correct seasoning, and pour sauce 
back into casserole. Then add the vegetables which 
have been prepared as follows: 


While the lamb is simmering, trim the potatoes into 


ovals 114 inches long, and cover with cold water until 
ready to use. Quarter the carrots and turnips, cut them 
into 144 inch lengths, and, if you have the patience, | 
trim the edges to round them slightly. Pierce a cross 
in the root ends of the onions so they will cook evenly. 


LAMB STEW 


1 cup shelled green peas 

1⁄4 lb. or about 1 cup green 
beans cut into -inch 
pieces 

3 quarts boiling water 

122 Tb salt 


347 


Press the vegetables into the casserole around and be- 


tween the pieces of lamb. Baste with the sauce. Bring 
to the simmer on top ofithe stove, cover and return 


_to the oven. Regulate heat so liquid simmers slowly 


and steadily for about an hour longer or until the 
meat and vegetables are tender when pierced with a 


« fork. Remove from oven, tilt casserole, and skim off 


fat. Taste sauce again, and correct seasoning. 


While the casserole is in the oven, drop the peas and 


beans into the boiling salted water and boil rapidly, 
uncovered, for 5 minutes or until the vegetables are 
almost tender. Immediately drain in a colander. Run 
cold water over them for 2 to 3 minutes to stop the 
cooking and to set the color. Put aside until ready to 
use. 

(*) May be prepared ahead to this point. Set casserole 
aside, cover askew. Bring to the simmer on top of the 
stove before proceeding with recipe. 


Shortly before serving, place the peas and beans in the 


casserole on top of the other ingredients and baste 
with the bubbling sauce. Cover and simmer about 5 
minutes or until the green vegetables are tender. 


Serve the navarin from its casserole or arrange it on a 


very hot platter. 





VARIATIONS 


The preceding #avarin is a model for other stews. You may, for instance, 


omit the green beans, peas, and potatoes, and add navy beans or lentils sim- 


mered in salted water until almost tender, or canned kidney beans, then finish 
them off for half an hour with the lamb. The following are prepared exactly 


like beef stews. 


Civet de Mouton 


[Lamb or Mutton Stew with Red Wine, Onions, Mushrooms, and Bacon] 


Follow the recipe for boeuf bourguignon, page 315, braising the lamb 2 
hours rather than the 314 to 4 hours required for beef. 


348 CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


Pilaf de Mouton à la Catalane 


[Lamb or Mutton Stew with Rice, Onions, and Tomatoes] 


Follow the recipe for boeuf à la catalane, page 321, using boned shoulder 
or shank. Time the cooking for about 2 hours rather than the 3 or 4 required 
for beef. 


DCS 


Daube de Mouton 


[Casserole of Lamb or Mutton with Wine, Mushrooms, Carrots, Onions, 
and Herbs] 


Follow the recipe for daube de boeuf, page 322, using boned shoulder or 
shank. Cook the lamb for 2 hours rather than the 3 or 4 in the recipe. 


Blanquette d’Agneau 
[Spring Lamb Stew with Onions and Mushrooms] 


This is a delicious stew for “genuine spring lamb,” and is cooked exactly 
like the blanquette de veau on page 362 in the Veal section. 


Lamb Shanks 


Lamb shanks, jarrets de devant, are considered part of the shoulder in 
France, so no special recipes are given for them. They may be boned or left 
whole, and you should allow one shank per person. Use any of the preceding 
lamb stew recipes. (Braised lamb shanks means that the meat is browned, 
then simmered in a liquid, and is just another name for stew or fricassee.) 


LAMB PATTIES 
Fricadelles d’ Agneau 


Delicious “lamburgers” may be made using freshly ground neck or other 
lean meat and mixing it with any of the stuffing suggestions for boned lamb 
on page 336-8. 

Except for the garlic and herb stuffing, which is a flavoring only, use 1 
part of stuffing for 3 to 4 parts of ground lamb. Sauté and sauce them accord- 
ing to directions in the hamburger recipes which begin on page 301. 


MOUSSAKA 


MOUSSAKA 


349 


MOUSSAKA 


[Lamb and Eggplant Mold] 


Lamb can hardly be considered a leftover when it receives this elaborate 
treatment. A mold is lined with the skins of cooked eggplant, and filled with 
a carefully seasoned mixture of cooked lamb, eggplant, and mushrooms. It 
presents itself after baking and unmolding as a shiny, dark purple cylinder 


surrounded with a deep red tomato sauce. It is delicious either hot or cold. 

Serve the moussaka with steamed rice or risotto, and buttered green beans 
or a green salad. A fairly full-bodied, dry, chilled white wine such as a Macon 
or Hermitage goes well with it. Moussaka also makes a handsome cold dish 
served with tomato salad and French bread. 


For 8 people 


Ingredients for 3 cups of 
tomato sauce, page 76 


5 lbs. of eggplant (five 1-lb. 
eggplants if possible, each 
7 to 8 inches long) 

x Tb salt 

2 Tb olive oil 

A shallow roasting pan 


A g- to 10-inch skillet 

24 cup (3 ounces) finely 
minced onions 

1 Tb olive oil 

A 3-quart mixing bowl 


14 Ib. finely minced mush- 
rooms 

2 Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 


Preheat oven to 400 degrees, in time to bake the egg- 


plant. 


Set tomato sauce to simmer. 


Remove green caps and slice eggplants in half length- 


wise. Cut deep gashes in the flesh of each half, but do 
not pierce the skin. Sprinkle flesh with salt and let 
stand for 30 minutes. Wash under cold water, squeeze 
out juice, and dry on paper towels. Rub with olive oil 
and set eggplants skin side down in a roasting pan. 
Pour in ! inch of water. Bake in upper third of pre- 
heated oven for about half an hour, or until just 
tender. 


While eggplants are baking, cook the onions slowly in 


olive oil for 10 to 15 minutes, until tender but not 
browned. Scrape into mixing bowl. 


A handful at a time, twist mushrooms into a ball in 


the corner of a towel to extract their juice. Add the 
juice to the tomato sauce. Sauté the mushrooms and 
shallots or onions in olive oil for 5 minutes or so, 


D 


350 
112 Tb olive oil 


3 Tb olive oil 


14 tsp olive oil 

A 2-quart cylindrical mold 
(preferably a charlotte) 
4 inches high and 7 inches 
in diameter 


2⁄4 cups ground cooked 
lamb 

x tsp salt 

1 tsp thyme 

12 tsp pepper 

2 tsp rosemary 

1 medium clove crushed 
garlic 

24 cup thick brown sauce, 
pages 66 to 71 (prefer- 
ably Numbers I or II; but 
the quick sauce, Number 
HI, can be used) 

3 Tb tomato paste 

3 eggs 

Aluminum foil 


A pan of boiling water 
A hot serving platter 
The tomato sauce 

A sauceboat 


CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


until pieces separate from each other. Add to mixing 


bowl. 


When eggplants are tender, carefully scoop out the 


flesh with a spoon, leaving the skin intact. Chop half 
the flesh and place in the mixing bowl. Dice or slice 
the rest and toss it briefly in very hot olive oil to 
brown lightly. Set aside until later. 


Oil the mold. Line it with the eggplant skins, their 


purple sides against the mold; place each lengthwise, 
a pointed end at the center of the bottom of the mold, 
the other end falling down outside the mold. 


Reset oven to 375 degrees. Add all ingredients at the 
left to the mixing bowl containing the onions, mush- 
rooms, and chopped eggplant. Beat vigorously with a 
wooden spoon to blend thoroughly. Taste carefully 
for seasoning. Spread an inch of the mixture in the 
bottom of the mold. Arrange over that a layer of the 
previously sautéed eggplant. Continue thus, ending 
with a layer of the lamb mixture. Fold the dangling 
ends of eggplant skin up over the surface. Cover the 
mold with foil and a lid or plate. 

(*) May be prepared ahead to this point. 


Set mold in a pan of boiling water. Bake in bottom 


third of oven for 114 hours. Remove and let cool for 
10 minutes. Reverse on a hot serving platter and sur- 
round with ! cup of the tomato sauce. Pass the rest 
of the sauce separately. 


VEAL ` 


Veau 


Veal is an interesting and delicious meat when it is cooked well, and like` 
chicken it lends itself to a variety of flavorings and sauces. The best quality of 


ROAST VEAL 351 


veal is milk-fed and is between 5 and 12 weeks old. The flesh is firm, smooth, 
fine-grained, and of a very pale pink color. The fat, which is white and satiny, 
is concentrated almost entirely inside the carcass around the kidneys. The bones 
are soft and reddish and can easily be sawed without splintering. After 12 
weeks veal becomes calf and is of no further culinary interest until it develops 
into beef. At whatever age the veal animal leaves its milk diet and starts in on 
grain or grass, its flesh becomes increasingly rosy until, when it is almost of 
calf age, it is frankly reddish. A considerable amount of the veal found in 
American markets is partially grass or grain fed, and its flesh color ranges from 
dark pink to light red. It can make reasonably good eating, but never has the 
delicacy, flavor, and tenderness of milk-fed veal. Train yourself when shopping 
for veal to look carefully at its color. Once you are aware of what good quality 
should look like, you can avoid the reddish pieces. You will be more likely to 
find the better qualities of veal in markets catering to a European clientele. 


CASSEROLE-ROASTED VEAL 
Veau Poélé 


With no natural fat covering and no marblings of fat inside the meat, 
a roast of veal will always be juicier and have more flavor if it is cooked in a 
covered casserole with aromatic vegetables. This is a particularly good method 
for the rather dark pink veal most frequently found in American markets. 


CUTS FOR ROASTING 


Count on 1 pound of boneless meat for 2 or 3 people. 


Round Roast—Cuisseau Raccourci. An American duplication of French 
cuts of the hind leg of veal is not possible as the two cutting methods are en- 
tirely different. Because the French animal is larger and older, between 5 and 
12 weeks rather than the usual 3 to 6 of American veal, the French round is 
separated into lengthwise muscles like beef. These are top round or noix, bot- 
tom round or sous noix, and sirloin tip or noix pâtissière; they make compact, 
boneless, cylindrical roasts which carve into neat slices. Top round and sirloin 
tip are the choice morsels, and top round is also used for scallops. The Ameri- 
can round is formed into roasts, steaks, or scallops by cutting directly across 
the grain, so one piece contains the top and bottom rounds and the sirloin tip. 

Rump—Culotte. This should be boned and rolled. 

Sirloin—Qwasi. This should be boned and rolled. 


352 CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


Loin or Saddle—Longe, or Selle, or if the kidneys are included, Rognon- 
nade. This is the loin-chop section. When used for roasts, it is usually boned 
and rolled, and is an expensive cut. 

Shoulder—Épaule. This is boned and rolled, and is less expensive than the 
previously listed roasts. It is not always available as some markets do not buy 


the forequarters of veal. 


PREPARATION FOR COOKING 
Select a boneless roast from any of the veal cuts in the list. It should weigh 
at least 3 pounds. Have it tied to make, if possible, a compact cylindrical shape 
4 to 5¥4 inches in diameter. As it is usually not the custom of American butch- 
ers to place thin strips of fresh pork fat along the top, bottom, and sides of a 
roast, we have suggested strips of blanched bacon in the recipes to follow; the 
bacon bastes the veal as it cooks. 


TIMING AND TEMPERATURES 


Veal is always cooked to well done; that is, until its juices run a clear 
yellow with no trace of rosy color—about 175 degrees on a meat thermometer. 
If the meat is at room temperature when it goes into the oven, estimate 30 
to 40 minutes per pound depending on the thickness of the meat. 


VEGETABLE SUGGESTIONS 
Starchy vegetables 
Risotto, page 532, or soubise (rice and onions), page 485 
Potatoes scalloped in cream, page 524, or sautéed in butter, page 526 
Buttered noodles 


Other vegetables 


Braised lettuce, page 489, endive, page 493, or celery, page 491, or baked 
cucumbers, page 499 

Spinach braised in cream or in stock, page 470 

Brussels sprouts with cream, page 452, or with cheese sauce, page 453 

Creamed, stuffed, or sautéed mushrooms, pages 513 to 516 

Buttered peas, page 462, and tomatoes stuffed with herbs, page 507 

A garniture of glazed carrots, page 479, onions, page 481, turnips, page 488 
and sautéed mushrooms, page 513 


WINE SUGGESTION a 9 


A good, red Bordeaux from the Médoc district is usually the best choice. 


ROAST VEAL 


399 


——— es 


x VEAU POELE 


[Casserole-roasted Veal] ‘4 


This is a very simple and savory recipe for veal. The meat renders a cer- 
tain amount of juice as it roasts, so no special sauce is necessary if you are con- 
tent with the French system of a spoonful per serving to moisten the meat. 
For more sauce, see the suggestion at the end of the recipe. 


For 6 people 


A 3b. roast of veal, boned 
and tied 


A heavy fireproof casserole 
just large enough to hold 
the veal easily 

2 Tb butter 

2 Tb oil 


3 Tb butter, if needed 

2 sliced carrots 

2 sliced onions 

A medium herb bouquet: 4 
parsley sprigs, 1⁄2 bay leaf, 
and 1⁄4 tsp thyme tied in 
cheesecloth 


Y, tsp salt 

1⁄4 tsp pepper 

A meat thermometer 

2 strips of fat bacon, sim- 
mered for 10 minutes in 1 
quart of water, rinsed, 
drained, and dried 

Aluminum foil 


Bulb baster 


A hot platter 
Salt and pepper 
A hot gravy boat 


Preheat oven to 325 degrees. 


Dry the veal on paper towels. 


Place the casserole over moderately high heat with the 
butter and oil. When you see the butter foam begin 
to subside, brown the veal lightly on all sides; this 
takes 10 to 15 minutes. Remove the veal. 


If the browning fat has burned, pour it out and add 
butter. Stir in the vegetables and herb bouquet, cover, 
and cook over low heat for 5 minutes without brown- 


ing. 


Sprinkle salt and pepper over the veal. Return it to 


the casserole and baste with the butter in the casserole. 
Insert meat thermometer. Lay the blanched bacon 
over the meat, then the foil. Cover the casserole and 
set in lower third of preheated oven. Regulate heat so 
meat cooks slowly and steadily for about 114 hours. 
Baste it 2 or 3 times with the juices in the casserole. 
The roast is done at a thermometer reading of 175 
degrees, or as soon as its juices run clear yellow when 
the meat is pricked deeply with a fork. 


Place the veal on a hot platter and discard trussing 


strings. The veal and vegetables will have produced a 
cup or more of juice in the casserole. Remove all but 


5 


354 


CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


2 tablespoons of fat from them. Set casserole over 
moderate heat while scraping up any coagulated cook- 
ing juices from the bottom and sides with a wooden 
spoon, and mashing the vegetables into the liquid. 
Boil down rapidly if necessary; you should have 34 to 
1 cup. Correct seasoning, and strain into a hot gravy 
boat. Garnish the meat platter with whatever vegeta- 
bles you have chosen, and serve. 

(*) If you are not serving immediately, return the 
veal and sauce to the casserole, cover partially, and set 
in turned-off hot oven where it will stay warm for 
half an hour at least. 





VARIATION 


Veau Poélé ala Matignon 


[Casserole-roasted Veal with Diced Vegetables] 


¥ cup Madeira 


I cup good brown stock or 
canned beef bouillon 

1 Tb arrowroot or corn- 
starch blended with 2 Tb 
Madeira 

Optional: 1 diced canned 
truffle and juice from the 
can 


2 Tb softened butter 
A warmed sauceboat 


Follow the master recipe for roast veal, but instead of 


slicing the carrots and onions, cut them into 44-inch 
dice. After browning the veal, remove it and cook the 
vegetables slowly in butter for 10 minutes. Then add 
the Madeira and boil it down rapidly until it has al- 
most completely evaporated. Return the meat to the 
casserole and spread half the vegetables over it, leaving 
the rest in the bottom of the casserole. Proceed with 
the recipe. 


When the veal is done and has been removed from the 
casserole, add the stock or bouillon and simmer for 
5 minutes. Then remove the herb bouquet and bacon, 
and degrease the sauce. Pour in the starch mixture 
and optional truffles and truffle juice. Simmer for 5 
minutes. Correct seasoning. Sauce should be lightly 


thickened. 





Off heat, and just before serving, add the butter by 
bits, swirling the sauce in the casserole until each addi- 
tion has been absorbed. Ladle a spoonful of sauce and. 
vegetables over the meat. Pour the rest into the 
warmed sauceboat. 


ROAST VEAL 595 


VEAU PRINCE ORLOFF 


[Veal Gratinéed with Onions and Mushrooms] 


This delicious creation is fine for a party as it may be prepared in the 
morning and reheated in the evening. The veal is cooked and sliced, re-formed 
with a spreading of onions and mushrooms between each slice, and covered 
with a light cheese sauce. It is reheated and browned before serving. Braised 
lettuce or endive go particularly well with this roast, and either a red Bordeaux 
wine from the Médoc district or a chilled white Burgundy. 


For 10 to 12 people 


Roasting the veal 


A 5-lb. boned and tied roast Brown the veal, and roast it for about 27, hours (to 
of veal 175 degrees on a meat thermometer) in a covered cas- 
serole as described in the master recipe, page 353. 
Then allow the meat to rest for 30 minutes at room 
temperature; it will be carved when the preparations 

which follow are ready. 


A 1-quart saucepan Strain the roasting juices into the saucepan and skim 
off fat. Boil juices down rapidly to reduce to 1 cup. 
They will go into your velouté sauce later. 


While the veal is roasting, prepare the onions and 
mushrooms as follows: 


Soubise (rice and onions) 


14 cup raw white rice Drop the rice into boiling salted water. Boil 5 minutes. 
2 quarts boiling water Drain. 

1 Tb salt 

3 Tb butter Melt the butter in the casserole, stir in the onions and 


A 6- to 8-cup, heavy, fire- salt, and coat well with butter; stir in the rice. (No 
proof casserole with cover liquid is added; the onions provide enough for the 
1 lb. (322 cups) sliced yel- rice.) Cover and cook over very low heat or in the 
low onions oven next to the veal for 45 minutes to 1 hour, until 
Y tsp salt the rice and onions are very tender but not browned. 


Mushroom duxelles 


14 Ib. finely minced fresh A handful at a time, squeeze the mushrooms in the 
mushrooms (makes 2 corner of a towel to extract their juice. Then sauté 
cups) them with the shallots or onions in hot butter and oil 


356 


3 Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 

2 Tb butter 

1 Tb oil 

An 8-inch enameled skillet 
or heavy-bottomed enam- 
eled saucepan 

Salt and pepper 


Thick velouté sauce 


6 Tb butter 

A 2-quart, heavy-bottomed 
enameled saucepan 

8 Tb flour 

A wooden spoon 

3 cups boiling liquid: the 
veal-roasting juices plus 
milk 

A wire whip 

Pinch of nutmeg 

V4 tsp salt 

Vs tsp pepper 


12 cup whipping cream 


CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


for 5 to 6 minutes, or until the pieces begin to separate 
from each other. Season to taste and set aside. 


» 


‘on 


When the roast is done, prepare the following sauce 


and the filling: 


Melt the butter in the saucepan. Stir in the flour and 
cook slowly together, stirring, until they foam for 2 
minutes without coloring. Remove from heat, pour in 
all the boiling liquid at once and beat vigorously with 
wire whip. Beat in the seasonings. Bring to the boil, 
stirring, and boil for 1 minute. Correct seasoning. 
Sauce will be very thick. 


Pour 1 cup of sauce into the cooked rice and onions. 
Beat the cream into the rest of the sauce and set it in 
a pan of simmering water to continue cooking slowly. 


Rice, onion, and mushroom filling 


"The cooked rice and onions 

The mushroom duxelles 

Y, cup whipping cream, 
more if needed 


Salt and pepper 


Final assembly 


A lightly buttered, fireproof 
serving platter 114 inches 
deep and about 14 inches 
long 


Purée the rice and onions through a sieve or in an 
electric blender. Add the purée to the mushrooms, 
pour in } cup cream, and simmer for 5 minutes, 
stirring. The filling should be thick enough to hold its 
shape quite solidly in a spoon. Boil down if not thick 
enough; thin out with spoonfuls of cream if too thick. 
Correct seasoning. 


Carve the veal into neat serving slices about 34 6 of an 
inch thick, piling them to one side in the order i in. 
which you sliced them. The roast is now to be re- 
turned in slices to the serving platter: Place the last 


ROAST VEAL 


Salt and pepper 
The filling 


357 


slice you carved in the platter, sprinkle lightly with 
salt and pepper, then spread with a spoonful of the 
filling. Overlap the next slice of veal on the first, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, spread with filling, and 
continue thus down the length of the platter. Spread 
any extra filling around and over the meat. 


The remaining velouté sauce 


2 to 3 Tb cream, if needed 
3 cup grated Swiss cheese 


3 Tb grated Swiss cheese 
3 Tb melted butter 


VEAU SYLVIE 


Bring the sauce to the simmer and correct seasoning. 
It should be thick enough to coat a spoon fairly 
heavily; thin out with more spoonfuls of cream, if 
necessary. Off heat, beat in the cheese. 


Spoon the sauce over the roast. Sprinkle the cheese 
over it, and dribble on the melted butter. 

(*) May be prepared ahead to this point. Set aside un- 
covered until ready to reheat. 


About 30 to 40 minutes before serving, set in the upper 
position of a preheated, 375-degree oven until the 
sauce is bubbling and the top has browned lightly. Do 
not overcook, or the meat will dry out and lose charac- 
ter. 


Once ready, the dish will stay warm for 20 to 30 
minutes in the turned-off hot oven, its door ajar. 


[ Veal Roasted with Ham and Cheese] 


In this recipe, deep slits are cut in the roast of veal from one end to the 
other, and the meat is marinated in brandy, Madeira, and aromatic vegetables, 
then stuffed with slices of ham and cheese. It is roasted in a covered casserole 
and, when sliced, the ham and cheese appear to have melted into the veal. 
Serve with the roast any of the wine and vegetable suggestions on page 352. 
Veau Sylvie also makes a good cold roast just as it is or glazed with aspic. 

The French cut for this would be a noix or top round of veal, as it is a 
long, cylindrical piece with no muscle separations. Rump, round, and sirloin 


358 


CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


are more difficult to handle but can be managed perfectly well; a boned section 
from the rib roast would be the best alternative, though more expensive. 


For 10 to 12 people 


A 5-lb. boneless roast of veal, 
aa solid as possible and in 
a loaf shape 


V2 cup cognac 
2 cup. Madeira 
2 Tb olive oil 
34 cup sliced carrots 
34 cup sliced onions 
1 Tb salt 
A large herb bouquet with 
peppercorns: 6 parsley 
sprigs, z bay leaf, 4 tsp 
thyme, and 6 peppercorns 
tied in cheesecloth 
6 or more large slices of 
boiled ham 146 inch thick 
‘12 or more large slices of 
Swiss cheese 146 inch 
thick 
White string 


4 Tb butter 

2 Tb oil 

A covered fireproof casserole 
large enough to hold the 
meat 


A bulb baster 


So that the roast may be stuffed, deep slits are cut 


from one end to the other to make it open like the 
leaves of a book: make a séries of deep, parallel cuts 
1 to 14% inches apart starting at the top and going 
with the grain the length of the meat from one end 
of the roast to the other, and to within 14 inch of the 
bottom of the roast. You will thus have 3 or 4 thick 
pieces of meat which are free at the top and sides, but 
which are all attached together at the bottom of the 
roast. If your meat contains many muscle separations 
it will look very messy and uneven at this point, but 
the roast is tied into shape later. 


Choose a glazed bowl large enough to hold the meat 
easily. Mix the marinade ingredients at the left in 
the bowl. Add the meat and baste it with the 
marinade. Turn and baste the meat every hour or so, 
and marinate for 6 hours or overnight. Then scrape 
off the marinade ingredients and dry the meat in 
paper towels. Reserve the marinade. Lay the roast so 
its bottom rests on your cutting board. Completely 
cover each leaf of meat with a layer of ham between 
two layers of cheese. The exterior of the two outside 
leaves is not covered. Then close the leaves of meat 
together to re-form the roast. Tie loops of white string 
around the circumference of the meat to hold it in 
shape. If the roast is not neat looking, no matter; it 
will firm up during its cooking. Dry the roast again 
with paper towels so it will brown nicely. 


Preheat oven to 450 degrees. 


Strain the marinade; reserving the liquid. Cook the 
marinade vegetables slowly in the butter and oil in the 
casserole for 5 minutes. Push them to the sides of the 
casserole. Raise heat to moderately high, put the veal. 
in, uncut side down, and let the bottom brown for 5 
minutes. Then baste with the butter and oil in the 


ROAST VEAL 


1 tsp salt 

V8 tsp pepper 

2 strips of fat bacon sim- 
mered for 10 minutes in 1 
quart of water, rinsed, 
drained, and dried 

A meat thermometer 

Aluminum foil 


Bo) 


casserole. Place the casserole uncovered in the upper 
third of the oven to brown the top and sides of the 
meat for about 15 minutes. Baste every 4 to 5 minutes 


with the butter in the casserole. 


Turn oven down to.325 degrees. Remove the casserole, 


. pour in the marinade liquid and boil it down rapidly 


on top of the stove until it is reduced to one third of 
its volume. Season the meat with salt and pepper. 
Place the bacon over it. Insert a meat thermometer, 
lay the foil over the meat, cover the casserole and 
place it in the lower third of the oven. Regulate heat 
so meat cooks slowly and steadily for about 214 hours, 
or to a thermometer reading of 175 degrees. Baste 3 or 
4 times with the juices in the casserole during this 
period. 


Serve the veal and prepare the sauce as described in 
the master recipe, veau poélé, on page 353. 


The meat should rest at room temperature for about 
20 minutes before being carved, and it is carved in 
crosswise slices so each piece has lardings of cheese 
and ham. 


VEAL STEW 


Sauté de Veau — Blanquette de Veau 


In France the favorite cut of veal for stews is zendron, the part of the 


breast which contains the cartilaginous false ribs. Its combination of meat and 


gelatin gives the sauce a fine body, and the cooked ¢endron has a special and 


slightly crunchy eating-quality all its own. However, this particular morsel 


does not charm all American palates. Time and again we have noticed a guest 


push it off to the side of his plate, obviously indicating he has no intention of 


eating that inferior bit of budget meat. Therefore, unless you know or can 


train your American audience, it is probably wiser to choose other parts of the 


veal. A combination of cuts is the best alternative, some with bones, some with 


cartilage, and some lean meat. Rump, sirloin, and round tend to be dry, but 
there are those who prefer them anyway. If you are using boneless meat, in- 


360 CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


clude a cupful or so of cracked veal bones with the stew so your sauce will 
develop more flavor and body. 


RECOMMENDED STEWING CUTS 


Allow 1 pound of boneless meat for 2 or 3 people, depending on the rest 
of your menu; about 34 pound per person for bone-in meat such as breast and 
ribs. aS 

Breast—Portrine, Tendron 

Short Ribs—Haut de Cétes 

Shoulder and Shoulder Chops—Épaule and Côtes Découvertes 

Neck—Collet 

Heel of Round or Shank—Nerveux Gite à la Noix or Jarret 

(Rump, Round, and Sirloin are less recommended but may be used if 


you wish) 


STEWING TIME 
Allow 14 to 134 hours. 





SAUTE DE VEAU MARENGO 


[Brown Veal Stew with Tomatoes and Mushrooms] 


The flavors of Provence go into this uncomplicated and hearty dish. 
Steamed rice or noodles go well with it, and green peas or beans. Serve a chilled 
rosé wine, or a strong, young, white wine. As with all stews, this one may be 
cooked in advance and reheated just before serving. 


For 6 people 
Preheat oven to 325 degrees. 


3 lbs. veal stew meat from Dry the veal on paper towels. Heat the oil in the skillet 
the preceding list, cut into until almost smoking. Then brown the meat, a few 


2-ounce, 2-inch pieces pieces at a time, and arrange the browned pieces in 
2 to 3 Th olive oil, more if the casserole. 
needed 


A 10- to 12-inch skillet 
A 4-quart fireproof casserole 


1 cup minced yellow onions Lower heat to moderate. Pour all but a tablespoon ef > 
oil out of the skillet, and brown the onions lightly for 
5 to 6 minutes. 


VEAL STEW 


I tsp salt 


74 tsp pepper 
2 Tb flour 


2 cups dry white wine or dry 
white vermouth 


1 lb. firm, ripe, red tomatoes 
peeled, seeded, juiced, and 
roughly chopped (1% 
cups), page 505 
OR, 1 cup drained and 

strained canned toma- 
toes or tomato purée 

14 tsp basil or tarragon 

12 tsp thyme 

A 3-inch strip of orange 
peel 4 inch wide or 1% tsp 
bottled ground orange 
peel 

2 cloves mashed garlic 

Salt and pepper to taste 


14 lb. fresh button mush- 
rooms or quartered larger 
mushrooms 


1% Tb cornstarch mixed 
with 1 Tb water, if needed 


361 





While the onions are browning, toss the meat in the 
casserole with salt and pepper, then with the flour. 
Toss and stir over moderate heat for 3 to 4 minutes to 
brown the flour lightly. Remove from heat. 


Add the wine to the skillet with the browned onions. 
Boil for 1 minute, scraping up coagulated sauté juices. 


Pour the wine and onions into the casserole and bring 
to the simmer, shaking and stirring to mix the liquid 
and flour. 


Stir the tomatoes into the casserole. Add the herbs, 


orange peel, and garlic. Bring again to the simmer and 
season lightly to taste. Cover and set in lower third of 
oven to simmer slowly for 114 to 14 hours or until 
the meat is almost tender when pierced with a fork. 


Add the mushrooms to the casserole and baste them 
with the sauce. Bring again to the simmer on top of 
the stove. Then cover and return the casserole to the 
oven for 15 minutes more. 


Remove casserole from oven. Pour contents into a 


sieve placed over a saucepan. Remove the strip of 
orange peel and return the meat and vegetables to the 
casserole. Skim the fat off the sauce in the saucepan 
and boil the sauce down rapidly until it has reduced 
to about 21⁄4 cups. It should be lightly thickened, and 
a rich reddish brown. If too thin, blend in the starch 
and water and simmer for 2 minutes. Correct season- 
ing, and pour the sauce back into the casserole over 
the veal. 

(*) May be done ahead to this point. Set aside, cover 
askew. 


362 CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


2 to 3 Tb minced fresh tarra- Shortly before serving, cover and bring to the simmer 
gon, basil, or parsley for 5 to 10 minutes. Present the stew in its casserole, or 
on a platter surrounded by rice or noodles, Decorate 


with fresh herbs., _ 





BLANQUETTE DE VEAU A LXANCIENNE 


[Veal Stew with Onions and Mushrooms | 


Blanquette de veau, a much-loved stew in France, is veal simmered in 
a lightly seasoned white stock. It is served in a sauce velouté made from the 
veal cooking stock and enriched, with cream and egg yolks. A blanquette is 
certainly not difficult to make, and except for the cream and egg yolk liaison 
at the end, which takes less than 10 minutes, all of it may be cooked in ad- 
vance. However, as it is supposed to be a lovely and delicate dish, it should 
really not be attempted unless you can find veal of good quality and of the 
palest pink color. 

Serve it with noodles or rice, or boiled or mashed potatoes. No other 
vegetables are needed with the mushrooms and onions, but you could include 
green peas, artichoke hearts, or baked cucumbers. A red Bordeaux-Médoc or 
chilled rosé wine would go well. 


TECHNICAL NOTE ON SCUM REMOVAL 


As veal comes to the simmer it releases a tremendous amount of gray- 
brown scum which must be removed by one means or another. American veal, 
probably because it is younger than most French veal, seems particularly scum- 

, productive. You can skim continually while the veal simmers for the first 30 
to 40 minutes. You can let it simmer for 10 minutes, then remove the veal and 
wash it rapidly in cold water, wash out the casserole, strain the stock through 
several thicknesses of damp cheesecloth, and continue with the recipe. Or you 
can adopt the following blanching process, which is the simplest. As long as 
all the scum is removed, it makes no difference which method you use; pick 
the one which best suits your predilections and prejudices. 


? 


For 6 people 


Cooking the veal 


a . g! 
3 lbs. veal stew meat cutinto Place the veal in the casserole and cover with cold 
2-ounce, 2-inch pieces water by 2 inches. Bring to the simmer and simmer 2 


VEAL STEW 


(cuts are listed on page 


360) 
A 3- to 4-quart, fireproof, 
enameled casserole 


5 to 6 cups cold white stock 


or good canned chicken 


broth 

1 large onion studded with 
1 clove 

1 large carrot, peeled and 
quartered 

A medium herb bouquet 
and 2 celery stalks: 8 pars- 
ley stems (not the leaves), 
12 bay leaf, 12 tsp thyme, 
and 2 medium celery 
stalks tied in cheesecloth 

Salt 


The onions 


18 to 24 peeled white onions 
about 1 inch in diameter 
12 cup of stock dipped from 
the simmering veal cas- 
serole 

14 tsp salt 

1 Tb butter 


363 


minutes. Drain the veal and wash it rapidly under 
cold water to remove all traces of scum. Wash out the 
casserole. Return the meat to the casserole. 


‘ 


Pour on stock or broth to cover the veal by 4 inch. 
Bring slowly to the simmer, and skim as necessary for 


‘ several minutes. Add the vegetables and herb bouquet. 


Taste for seasoning and salt lightly if necessary. Cover 
partially and’ simmer very slowly for 114 to 14 hours, 
or until the veal is tender when pierced with a fork. 
It should not be overcooked. 


While the blanquette is simmering, prepare the 
onions: Following directions for white-braised onions 
on page 481, pierce a cross in the root ends and sim- 
mer for 30 to 40 minutes in a small, covered saucepan 
with the veal stock, salt, and butter. Set them aside. 


When the veal is tender, pour the contents of the 
casserole into a colander set over a bowl. Rinse out the 
casserole and return the meat to the casserole, remov- 
ing any loose bones. Arrange the cooked onions over 
the meat. 


Sauce velouté (3% cups), and mushrooms 


An 8-cup, heavy-bottomed, 
enameled saucepan 

4 Tb butter 

5 Tb flour 

A wooden spoon 

3% cups of veal cooking 
stock 


In the saucepan, melt the butter, add the flour, and 
stir over low heat until they foam together for 2 
minutes. Off heat, pour in the veal stock, beating 
vigorously with a wire whip. Bring the sauce to the 
boil, stirring. Simmer for 10 minutes, frequently 
skimming off the film which rises to the surface. Fold 
in the mushroom caps and simmer 10 minutes more, 


364 


A wire whip 

18 to 24 fresh mushroom 
caps about 1 inch in di- 
ameter, tossed with 1 Tb 
lemon juice 

Salt and white pepper 

1 to 2 Tb lemon juice 


2 Tb cream or stock 


CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


skimming. Taste the sauce very carefully for season- 
ing, adding salt, pepper, and lemon juice to taste. 


Or 
Pour the sauce and mushrooms over the veal. Film 


the top of the sauce with 2 spoonfuls of cream or 
stock to prevent a skin from forming. Set aside, 
partially covered. 

(*) May be done ahead to this point. 


Cream and egg yolk enrichment 


3 egg yolks 

12 cup whipping cream 
A 6-cup mixing bowl 
A wire whip 


2 Tb minced parsley 


About 10 to 15 minutes before serving, reheat slowly 
to the simmer, basting the veal with the sauce. Cover 
and simmer for 5 minutes. Remove from heat. 


Blend the egg yolks and cream in the bowl with wire 


whip. Beat in by spoonfuls 1 cup of the hot sauce. 
Then pour the mixture into the casserole, tilting it and 
basting the veal and vegetables to blend the rest of the 
sauce with the egg yolk mixture. 


Set over moderate heat, gently shaking the casserole 
until sauce has thickened lightly, but do not let it 
come to the simmer. (If not served at once, film the 
top of the sauce with a spoonful or two of stock, 
partially cover the casserole, and keep warm over hot 
but not simmering water for 10 to 15 minutes.) 


Serve from the casserole or on a platter surrounded 


with rice, noodles, or potatoes. Decorate with parsley. 


VEAL SCALLOPS 


Escalopes de Veau 


French veal scallops are boneless slices of meat cut % inch thick which 
are flattened to a thickness of 14 inch. So that each scallop will constitute a 
neat, flat serving piece, it is cut across the grain from a solid piece of veal which 
contains no muscle separations. Scallops take from 8 to 10 minutes to cook, 


VEAL SCALLOPS 365 


may be elegantly or simply sauced, and are always an expensive delicacy. They 
may be breaded or floured but are best, in our opinion, when sautéed au na- 
turel. 


AMOUNT TO BUY 


Allow 2 or 3 scallops per person, depending on the size of the pieces of 
meat. 


QUALITY 


Because it is cooked so quickly, the veal should be of good quality, tender, 
and of the palest pink you can find. Dark pink and reddish veal tends to be 
tough when cooked this way. 


SCALLOPS CUT FROM THE ROUND ROAST 


In France, because of the French method of cutting the leg into length- 
wise muscles, scallops are usually taken from the top round or noix. This cut 
gives solid slices of meat, with no muscle separations, which cook without 
curling. You may obtain the same effect if you buy slices of round roast % inch 
thick, and then separate them into their natural muscle divisions. The largest 
piece is the top round, which may be cut in half. The bottom round with its 
eye insert will furnish one or two more scallops. Usually one more of reasona- 
ble size can be found among the muscle divisions which make up the sirloin 
tip at the side of the meat nearest the bone. Smaller pieces may be saved for 
second helpings or reserved for stew or for ground meat. 


SCALLOPS CUT FROM RIB CHOPS 


Rib chops are more expensive but easier to use and furnish scallops all 
of the same size. Have your butcher bone a length of the rib section (rack) 
and cut the meat into %-inch slices across the grain. Bones and trimming may 
be saved for veal stock. 


PREPARATION FOR COOKING 


Remove the transparent filaments, or the skin and any fat surrounding 
the scallops. If left on, the meat will curl up as it cooks. Place each scallop be- 
tween sheets of waxed paper and pound briefly and not too roughly; use a 
mallet, the flat of a cleaver, or a rolling pin to reduce the scallop to a thickness 
of 44 inch. If they are not to be cooked immediately, wrap the scallops in 
waxed paper and refrigerate them. 


366 


CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 





x  ESCALOPES DE VEAU À LA CREME 
[Sautéed Veal Scallops with Mushrooms and Cream | 


This recipe for veal scallops makes a perfect main course for a chic little 


luncheon. If you are reasonably quick you can complete it in 30 minutes or 


less, and you may prepare it in advance; it only needs a 5-minute heating be- 


fore it is ready to eat. Serve with it buttered rice or risotto, green beans, peas, 


or braised endive, and a chilled white Burgundy wine. 


For 6 people 


12 veal scallops prepared ac- 
cording to the preceding 
directions 


2 Tb butter and 1 Tb oil, 
more as necessary 

A 10- to 12-inch enameled 
skillet 


‘3 Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 


2 Tb butter if needed 


12 cup dry white wine or 1⁄5 
cup dry white vermouth 
or Madeira 

7; cup brown stock or 
canned beef bouillon 

A wooden spoon 


1¥% cups whipping cream 
'Y% Tb arrowroot or corn- 


Dry the scallops thoroughly on paper towels. The 
meat ‘will not brown if it is damp. 


Place the butter and oil in the skillet over moderately 
high heat. When you see that the butter foam has al- 
most subsided, arrange 3 or 4 pieces of veal in the 
skillet. Do not crowd them together. Sauté on one 
side for a minute or so regulating heat so fat is very 
hot but is not burning. Turn, and sauté the meat on 
its other side. (Each scallop should be lightly browned 
and cooked to the point where the juices have turned 
from rose to yellow. It is done when it has just become 
springy rather than squashy to the pressure of your 
finger.) Remove the scallops to a dish, and continue 
with the rest in the same manner, adding more butter 
and oil as needed. 


Pour all but 2 tablespoons of fat out of the skillet. If 
fat has burned, discard it and add 2 Tb butter. Stir in 
the shallots or onions and cook slowly for 1 minute. 


Pour the wine and stock or bouillon into the skillet 
and scrape up all the coagulated cooking juices with 
wooden spoon. Boil rapidly until liquid has reduced 
to about 1⁄4 cup. 


2 


Pour the cream and the starch mixture into the skillet 


and boil for several minutes until cream has reduced 


VEAL SCALLOPS 


starch blended with 1 Tb 
water 
Salt and pepper to taste 


12 Ib. sliced fresh mush- 
rooms i 

2 Tb butter 

x Tb oil 

Salt and pepper 


Salt and pepper 


A hot platter 
Parsley sprigs 


367 


and thickened slightly. Remove from heat and season 
with salt and pepper. 


In a separate skillet, sauté the mushrooms in very hot 


butter and oil for 4 to 5 minutes to brown them 
lightly. Season to taste with salt and pepper, and 


- scrape them into the cream sauce. Simmer for 1 


minute. Remove from heat and correct seasoning. 





Sprinkle salt and pepper over the sautéed scallops and 
arrange in the skillet, basting with the cream and 
mushrooms. 

(*) May be done ahead to this point. Set skillet aside, 
partially covered. 


Several minutes before serving, cover the skillet and 
bring almost to the simmer for 4 to 5 minutes, to 


warm the veal thoroughly but not to overcook it. 


Arrange the scallops on a hot platter. Spoon the cream 


and mushrooms over them and surround, if you wish, 
with the rice or risotto. Decorate with parsley, and 
serve. 





VARIATIONS 


Escalopes de Veau à l’Estragon 


[Sautéed Veal Scallops with Brown Tarragon Sauce] 


Rice, noodles, or sautéed potatoes go well with this, and green peas or 


beans. Accompany with a red Bordeaux wine. 


For 6 people 


12 veal scallops 


3 Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 
12 cup dry white wine or 


Prepare and sauté the veal as described in the preced- 
ing master recipe. Place on a plate while completing 
the following sauce. 


Cook the shallots or onions for a minute in the sauté 
skillet, then deglaze the skillet with the wine and 
tarragon, reducing the liquid to 2 or 3 spoonfuls. Add 


368 


⁄ cup dry white ver- 
mouth 

z Tb fragrant tarragon, 
fresh or dried 

1 cup brown sauce, page 66, 
or 1 cup brown stock or 
canned beef bouillon plus 
1 Tb arrowroot or corn- 
starch blended with x Tb 


water 


Salt and pepper 

A hot platter 

2 Tb softened butter 

1 Tb fresh minced tarragon 
or minced parsley 


CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


the brown sauce, or the stock and starch mixture, and 
boil for 2 to 3 minutes until the sauce has reduced and 
thickened lightly. Correct seasoning. 


Season the veal with salt and pepper. Return it to the 
skillet, and baste with the sauce. Cover the skillet and 
heat for 4 to 5 minutes without boiling. Arrange the 
meat on a hot platter. Off heat, swirl the butter into 
the sauce by small spoonfuls. Swirl in the herbs. Spoon 
the sauce over the veal and serve. 


Escalopes de Veau Chasseur 


[Sautéed Veal Scallops with Mushrooms and Tomatoes | 


Serve rice, noodles, or sautéed potatoes with this, green peas or beans, or 
sautéed eggplant, and a Beaujolais or chilled rosé wine. 


For 6 people 


12 veal scallops 


4 cup minced shallots or 
* . green onions 
34 lb. firm, ripe, red toma- 
toes, peeled, seeded, juiced, 
and chopped, page 505 
(makes 1 cup of pulp) 
Y, clove mashed garlic 
14 tsp salt 
Pinch of pepper 
12 tsp basil or tarragon 
2 cup white wine or 134 cup 
dry white vermouth 
72 cup brown sauce, page 
66, or 2 cup brown stock 


Prepare and sauté the veal as described in the preced- 


ing master recipe. Place the meat on a plate while 
completing the following sauce. 


Cook the shallots or onions for 1 minute in the skillet. 
Stir in the tomatoes, garlic, seasonings, and herbs. 
Cover the skillet and simmer for 5 minutes. Pour in 
the wine, and the brown sauce or the stock and starch. 
Boil rapidly for 4 to 5 minutes until the sauce has re- 
duced and thickened. Correct seasoning and remove 
from heat. 


VEAL SCALLOPS 369 


or canned beef bouillon 

plus 1 Tb arrowroot or 

cornstarch blended with 1 | A 
Tb water 


14 lb. sliced fresh mush- Ina separate skillet, sauté the mushrooms in very hot 


rooms _ butter and oil to brown lightly. Season to taste and 
2 Tb butter ‘ scrape them into the tomato sauce. Simmer for 1 
1 Tb oil minute and correct seasoning again. 


Salt and pepper 


A hot platter Sprinkle the veal scallops with salt and pepper and 


2 Tb fresh minced tarragon, return them to the skillet. Baste with the sauce. Cover 
basil, or parsley and heat for 4 to 5 minutes without boiling. Serve on 


a hot platter and decorate with the herbs. 


VEAL CHOPS OR CUTLETS 
Côtes de Veau 


The best treatment for veal chops, in our opinion, is the simple one of 
browning them, then cooking them slowly in a covered skillet or casserole for 
15 to 20 minutes until their juices have turned from rose to yellow. They are 
particularly good if aromatic herbs and vegetables are braised with them as 
veal usually needs other flavors to make it more interesting. 


PREPARATION FOR COOKING 
Buy loin, rib, or shoulder chops 1 to 114 inches thick. Have the corner 
of the backbone at the top of the chop cut off so the meat will lie as flat as 
possible on either side. 


* COTES DE VEAU AUX HERBES 
[Veal Chops Braised with Herbs] 


This is an excellent basic recipe for all veal chops, whether they are 
served with a plain deglazing sauce made from the pan juices, or with any 
of the suggestions listed at the end of the recipe. Sautéed potatoes, broiled to- 
matoes, string beans, and a chilled rosé wine would go well with chops pre- 


pared in the following manner. 


379 


CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


Cooking Note: For 2 or 3 chops, the final cooking may be done on top 
of the stove in a covered skillet. For 6 chops, it is easier to finish cooking them 


in the oven. 


For 6 people 


6 large veal chops cut 1 inch 
thick 

A 10- to 12-inch skillet 

2 Tb butter and 1 Tb oil, 
more if needed 

Salt and pepper 

A heavy, 10- to 12-inch fire- 
proof casserole with cover 


3 Tb butter, if needed 

3 Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 

Optional: x clove mashed 
garlic 

2 cup dry white wine or 
dry white vermouth 

1 tsp mixed basil and thyme, 
or tarragon 


A hot platter 

V4 cup stock, canned bouil- 
lon, or cream 

Salt and pepper 

1 to 2 Tb softened butter 


(*) AHEAD-OF-TIME NOTE 


Preheat oven to 325 degrees. 





VERY 
Dry the chops on paper towels. Heat the butter and 
oil in the skillet until you see that the butter foam has 
almost subsided, then brown the chops, two or three 
at a time, for 3 to 4 minutes on each side. As they are 
done, season with salt and pepper and arrange in the 
casserole, overlapping them slightly. 


Pour all but 3 tablespoons of fat out of the skillet. If 


fat has burned, pour it all out and add butter. Stir in 
the shallots or onions and optional garlic, and cook 
slowly for 1 minute. Then pour in the wine, add the 
herbs, and simmer for a few minutes, scraping up the 
coagulated sautéing juices. Scrape the mixture into 
the casserole over the chops. 


Heat the casserole on top of the stove until the liquid 


is simmering. Cover and set in lower third of pre- 
heated oven for 15 to 20 minutes. Turn the chops and 
baste them with the liquid in the casserole 2 or 3 
times during this period. The chops are done as soon 
as their juices run yellow when the meat is pierced 
with a fork. 


Remove the chops to a hot platter. Add the stock, 


bouillon, or cream to the casserole and boil rapidly 
for a few minutes until the liquid has reduced and 
thickened slightly. Correct seasoning. Off heat, swirl 
in the butter by bits. Pour the sauce over the chops 
and serve. 


Veal chops may be browned well in advance of their final cooking. Once 
cooked, they may be kept in the hot, turned-off oven, casserole cover askew, 


VEAL CHOPS 371 


for about 20 minutes. But do not allow them to overcook or overheat for they 
will dry out. 


ee 
VARIATIONS: SAUCES 


In addition to the following sauces, you may use the mushrooms and 
cream, mushrooms and tomato, or brown tarragon sauces described in the 
recipes for veal scallops, pages 366 to 368. 


Sauce Tomate or Coulis Before cooking the chops, prepare 2 cups of one of 
de Tomates, tomato the sauces listed at the left. When the chops are done, 
sauce, pages 76 to 78 pour the sauce into the casserole, basting the chops. 

Sauce Madère, brown sauce If not to be served immediately, set aside. Shortly be- 
with Madeira wine, page fore serving, cover the casserole and reheat for 4 to 5 
75 minutes without simmering. Arrange the chops on a 

Sauce Robert, brown sauce platter. Off heat, swish 1 or 2 tablespoons of butter 
with mustard and onions, into the casserole, then pour the sauce over the chops. 


page 72 

Sauce Duxelles, brown 
sauce with diced mush- 
rooms and herbs, page 74 


OTHER VARIATIONS 

The recipe for sautéed chicken aux herbes de Provence, page 257, has an 
herb-and-garlic type of hollandaise sauce which can be adapted for veal chops. 
Another idea is to add almost cooked small potatoes and onions, and browned 
lardons of blanched bacon, all of which will finish cooking with the chops; 
follow the directions for them in poulet en cocotte, pages 252-3, but boil the 
vegetables long enough so they are almost tender before arranging them in the 
casserole to bake with the chops. Following the same system with other vege- 
tables, you could use a combination of butter-braised carrots and artichoke hearts 
with sautéed mushrooms. 


VEAL STEAKS 


Veal steaks 1 to 114 inches thick cut from the round roast or the sirloin 
may be cooked exactly the same way as veal chops. 


372 CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 





GROUND VEAL PATTIES 
Fricadelles de Veau 


Here is a fine recipe for ground veal patties. Arranged on a bed of braised 
spinach, surrounded with baked or stuffed tomatoes, and served with a chilled 
rosé wine, they make a most attractive informal main course. Other vegetables 
are suggested in the list under roast veal on page 352. Neck, shoulder, shank, 
or breast meat may be used for grinding; be sure the meat has first been pared 
of gristle, tendons, filaments and other miscellaneous matter. Always include 
a proportion of ham fat, pork fat, or sausage meat; otherwise the patties will 
be too dry. 


x FRICADELLES DE VEAU À LA NICOISE 
[Veal Patties with Tomatoes, Onions, and Herbs] 


Onions, garlic, and tomatoes are particularly good mixed with ground 
veal. If you happened to have the remains of a ratatouille (eggplant and to- 
mato casserole, page 503), half a cup of it could replace the tomatoes and 
onions in the following recipe. 


For 6 people 


Y, cup finely minced onions 
2 Tb butter 


2 medium tomatoes, peeled, 
seeded, juiced, and 
chopped, page 505 

1 clove mashed garlic 

14 tsp salt 

12 tsp basil or thyme 

A 3-quart mixing bowl 


1 cup stale white bread 
crumbs and 4 cup milk 

OR, grind ¥2 cup of cooked 
rice with the veal 


1 lb. or a cups lean raw veal, 
ground with 2 ounces (14 


Cook the onions slowly with the butter in a small 


skillet for 8 to 10 minutes, until they are tender but 
not browned. 


Add the tomatoes, and other ingredients. Cover and 


cook slowly for 5 minutes. Uncover, raise heat, and 
boil rapidly until the tomato juices have almost en- 
tirely evaporated. Scrape into the mixing bowl. 


While the tomatoes are cooking, soak the bread 


crumbs in the milk for 5 minutes. Pour into a strainer 
and press out as much of the milk as you can. Add 
bread crumbs to mixing bowl. 


Add the meat, seasonings, parsley, and egg to the 
mixing bowl and beat vigorously with wooden spoon 


VEAL PATTIES 


cup) of boiled ham and 2 
ounces (14 cup) of ham 
fat or fresh pork fat 

I tsp salt 


/a tsp pepper 
3 Tb minced parsley 


I egg 
A wooden spoon 


Y, cup sifted flour spread on 
a dish 


to 2 skillets each contain- 
ing 2 Tb butter and 1 Tb 
oil 


i 


A hot platter 


7; cup brown stock or 
canned beef bouillon 
1 to 2 Tb softened butter 


(*) AHEAD-OF-TIME NOTE 


53 


to blend thoroughly. Taste carefully for seasoning, 
adding more if you feel it necessary. Form the mix- 
ture into 6 or 12 balls. Flatten them into patties 4 
inch thick with the palm of your hand. If not to be 
cooked immediately, cover with waxed paper and re- 
frigerate. 


Just before’ sautéing, dredge the patties in the flour 


and shake off excess flour. 


Set the skillet or skillets over moderately high heat. 


When you see that the butter foam has almost sub- 
sided, brown the patties for 2 to 3 minutes on each 
side. Pour out excess fat, cover and cook very slowly 
for 15 minutes, turning the patties once. 


Arrange the meat on a hot platter with whatever 


vegetables you have chosen, and keep warm for a 
moment while finishing the sauce. 


Pour the fat out of the skillet. Add the stock or bouil- 


lon and boil rapidly, scraping up coagulated cooking 
juices and reducing liquid to 3 or 4 spoonfuls. Off 
heat, swirl in the butter by small spoonfuls. Pour the 
sauce over the patties, and serve. 


After the patties have been browned, arrange them in a casserole. De- 
glaze the skillet with stock and set aside. About 20 to 30 minutes before serv- 
ing, heat the casserole until the meat is sizzling, cover and finish cooking in a 
325-degree oven. Reheat and butter the sauce just before pouring it over the 


patties. 


VARIATION 


Fricadelles de Veau a la Créme 


[Veal Patties with Cream and Herb Sauce | 


Y, Tb tarragon or basil 
2 cup dry white wine, dry 
white vermouth, or stock 


Cook the patties and remove them to a hot platter as 


directed in the master recipe. Add the tarragon or 
basil and wine or stock to the degreased skillet. Boil 


374 


2 to 3⁄4 cup whipping cream 

2 Tb softened butter 

V2 Tb fresh minced tarra- 
gon, basil, or parsley 


VARIATIONS: SAUCES 


Coulis de Tomates a la 
Provengale, fresh tomato 
sauce with herbs, page 78 

Sauce Brune aux Fines 
Herbes or à l’Estragon, 
brown sauce with mixed 
green herbs or tarragon, 
page 73 

Sauce Madère, brown sauce 
with Madeira wine, page 
75 

Sauce Robert, brown sauce 
with mustard and onions, 
page 72 

Sauce Duxelles, brown 
sauce with diced mush- 
rooms and herbs, page 74 


VARIATIONS 


4 


CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


down liquid to 3 tablespoons, scraping up coagulated 
cooking juices. Then pour in the cream and boil it 
down rapidly to reduce and thicken it lightly. Off 
heat, swirl in the butter by bits, then swirl in the 
herbs. Pour over ‘the patties.- 


After cooking the patties, deglaze the skillet with half 


a cup of white wine or white vermouth, then add 
1}, to 2 cups of any of the sauces listed at the left. 
Simmer for a minute or two. Off heat, swirl in 1 to 
2 tablespoons of softened butter and pour the sauce 
over the meat. 


Use the same mixture of ground veal, onions, and tomatoes as described 


in the master recipe on page 372. 


Fricadelles de Veau Duxelles 
[Veal Patties with Mushrooms | 


14 Ib. finely minced fresh 


mushrooms 


Squeeze the mushroofns, a handful at a time, in the 
corner of a towel to extract their juice. When the 
minced onions in the master recipe are tender, add 
the mushrooms. Raise heat and sauté for 4 to 5 min- : 
utes. Then add the tomatoes and proceed with the 
recipe. 


VEAL PATTIES 375 





Fricadelles de Veau Mentonnaise 
[Veal Patties with Tuna and Anchovies] a 


This Italian and Meditérranean combination is especially good accom- 
panied by braised spinach and grilled or baked tomatoes, or fried or sautéed 
potatoes and a salad of fresh tomatoes. 


2 cup drained and mashed Prepare the ground veal mixture as described in the 
canned tuna fish master recipe and beat into it the tuna and anchovies. 
6 canned anchovy filets Then proceed with the recipe. 
drained and mashed, or 1 
Tb anchovy paste 


Patties Using Cooked Ground Veal 


Follow any of the preceding combinations, substituting cooked veal for 
raw veal. To prevent the meat from being too dry, add to the mixture 4 cup 
of sausage meat or an additional 1⁄4 cup of ground ham fat or pork fat. 


Pain de Veau 
[Veal Loaf] 


Use any of the preceding ground veal combinations and pack the meat 
in a loaf pan or a soufflé mold. Over the top of the meat lay 2 or 3 strips of 
blanched bacon, page 15. Bake in a 350-degree oven for 1 to 14 hours. 

The loaf is done when the meat has shrunk slightly from the sides of 
the mold and the surrounding juices are clear yellow with no trace of rosy 
color, or at a meat-thermometer reading of 175 to 180 degrees. Unmold the 
loaf and serve it with a tomato sauce, page 76. If the loaf is to be served cold, 
place a weight on top of it after cooking to compress the meat as it cools. 





PORK 
Porc 
MARINADES 


Fresh pork, whether it is a large piece for roasting, or a thin piece for 
sautéing, will be tenderer and have a more interesting flavor if it receives a 


376 CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


marination before cooking. This is not an essential step, but you will find it 
most effective, and cold leftovers will be even better than usual. You may use 
a simple dry mixture of salt, herbs, and spices, or a liquid marinade of either 
lemon juice or wine and vinegar with herbs and aromatic vegetables. 

Always marinate the meat in a noncorroding container: porcelain, pyrex, 
enamelware, or stainless steel. 


a 
TIME REQUIRED 


(If the meat is refrigerated, increase the minimum marination time by 
at least one third.) 

Chops and steaks—a minimum of 2 hours; 6 to 12 are even better. 

Loin roasts—a minimum of 6 hours, but 24 are recommended. 

Fresh hams and picnic shoulders—a minimum of 2 days, but 4 to 5 are 
more effective. 


MARINADE SECHE 
[Salt Marinade with Herbs and Spices] 


Fine for all types of fresh pork. This is our favorite, as it tenderizes the 
pork and accentuates its natural flavor. 
Per pound of pork 


I tsp salt Mix all the ingredients together and rub them into 
Vs tsp freshly ground pepper the surface of the pork. Place in a covered bowl. Turn 
Y4 tsp ground thyme or sage the meat 2 or 3 times if the marinade is a short one; 
8 tsp ground bay leaf several times a day if it is of long duration. 

Pinch of allspice 

' Optional: 4% clove mashed 

garlic 


Before cooking, scrape off the marinade, and dry the 
meat thoroughly with paper towels. 





MARINADE SIMPLE 
[Lemon Juice and Herb Marinade] 
For chops, steaks, and small, boned roasts. This is also an effective mari- 


nade giving the pork a slightly different flavor than the dry one. 
Per pound of pork 


PORK MARINADES 


I tsp salt 

Ye tsp pepper 

3 Tb lemon juice 

3 Th olive oil 

3 parsley sprigs 

14 tsp thyme or sage 

1 bay leaf 

1 clove mashed garlic 


i 


Rub salt and pepper into the meat. Mix the other in- 


gredients in a bowl, add the pork and baste it. Place 
a lid over the bowl. Turn and baste the meat 3 or 4 
times during its marination period. 


Before cooking, scrape off the marinade, and dry the 
meat thoroughly with paper towels. 





MARINADE AU VIN 


[Wine Marinade] 


May be used for chops, steaks, and small roasts, but is usually reserved 
for fresh hams and picnic shoulders. This is a special 2- to 4-day marinade 
which gives pork a taste akin to that of wild boar, marcassin. 


[noTe: If the pork is to be marinated for more than 3 days, cook the carrots, 
onions, and garlic very slowly in the olive oil before proceeding with the 


recipe. | 
Per each 3 pounds of pork 
x Tb salt Rub salt into the pork. Mix the other ingredients in a 


1 cup dry white wine or % 
cup dry white vermouth 

2 cup wine vinegar 

4 Tb olive oil 

3 halved cloves garlic 

12 cup thinly sliced carrots 

12 cup thinly sliced onions 

Y4 tsp peppercorns 

2 bay leaves 

1 tsp thyme 

Optional: 1% tsp each of 
basil, tarragon, sage, and 
mint; 5 coriander seeds; 
5 juniper berries 


bowl, add the meat and baste it. Place a lid over the 
bowl. Turn and baste the meat 3 or 4 times a day. 
Before cooking, scrape off the marinade and drain 
the meat for half an hour or so. Then dry it thor- 
oughly with paper towels. 


378 CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 





ROAST PORK 
Rôti de Porc. 


Pork may be roasted slowly in an open pan in a 325-degree oven, and 
basted occasionally with a spoonful or two of, wine, stock, or water to aid in 
the dissolution of its fat. But we think pork is more tender and juicy if it is 
browned in hot fat, then roasted like veal in a covered casserole. This slow, 
steamy cooking tenderizes the meat and renders out the fat very effectively. 


PREPARATION OF ROASTS FOR COOKING 


The flavors of a marinade will penetrate pork more thoroughly if the 
meat is boned; it is rolled and tied after marination. All but a 14-inch layer of 
outside fat should be cut off, as well as any loose interior fat or heavy layers of 
fat. If you are using a fresh ham or shoulder, remove the rind; it may be frozen 
and used whenever you are cooking braised meat to give body to the sauce. 


CUTS FOR ROASTING OR BRAISING 


One pound of boneless pork will serve 2 or 3 people. For bone-in roasts, 
particularly the loin, allow 34 pound per person. 
Loin of Pork—Longe. The loin is divided into the following cuts: 
Center Cut—Milieu de Filet. This is lean meat, and corresponds to the 
porterhouse and T-bone steak section of beef with both loin and tender- 
loin. If it is not boned and rolled, have the backbone part removed for 
easier carving. 
Rib Cut—Carré. This is lean meat, and corresponds to the rib section 
of beef with loin but no tenderloin. If it is not boned and rolled, have 
the backbone section removed. 
Loin End—Pointe de Filet. This corresponds to the rump of beef and 
should be boned. It makes a juicy roast with a combination of fat and 
lean. 
Shoulder or Blade End—Échine. This combination of fat and lean is a 
favorite roasting cut in France; it is the shoulder-chop end of the loin 
and should be boned. 
Shoulder Butt or Boston Butt—Palette. The shoulder butt is a combina- 
tion of fat and lean and should be boned. 


ROAST PORK 379 


Picnic Shoulder or Shoulder Arm—No French equivalent: part of it is 
palette; part is jambonneau. This is lean meat, and should be boned. 


Fresh Ham—Jambon Frais. Fresh ham is lean meat. It may be bought 
whole, or in part, and may be boned or not, as you wish. 


TEMPERATURE AND TIMING FOR ROAST PORK 


Pork, in our opinion, develops its best flavor and texture when it is cooked 
to an interior temperature of 180 to 185 degrees on a meat thermometer. At 
this point all its juices have turned clear yellow with no trace of rosy color, 
and the meat is somewhat gray with only a suggestion of pink overtone. It 
was authoritatively established as far back as the year 1919 that trichinae are 
killed at a meat temperature of 131 degrees (137 degrees for official purposes) 
or when the pork is still rare. In view of this fact there is no reason whatsoever 
for overcooking pork until it is dry and lifeless. 

From 30 to 45 minutes per pound are required to roast a 3- to 8-pound 
piece of unchilled fresh pork to an internal temperature of 180 to 185 degrees. 
A long, thin, pork loin takes less time to roast than a thick fresh ham or 
shoulder of the same weight. Boned roasts usually require 5 to 10 minutes per 
pound more than bone-in roasts. As it takes a good hour for a large roast to 
cool off when it is out of the oven, you can afford to allow yourself plenty of 
time. Here are some examples for covered roasting in a 325-degree oven: 

A 3-pound loin 

Bone In—1¥4 to 134 hours 

Boned and Rolled—1 to 2 hours 

A 5-pound loin 

Bone In—2!4, to 3 hours 

Boned and Rolled—3 to 3 hours 

A 5-pound fresh ham or picnic 

Bone In—About 34 hours 

Boned and Rolled—About 4 hours 


VEGETABLE SUGGESTIONS 


Potatoes 
Roast potatoes, which may cook with the pork 
Sautéed potatoes, which may be done in pork fat rather than butter, 


page 526 
Boiled potatoes, plain, mashed potatoes, or the garlic mashed potatoes on 


page 520 


380 CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


Scalloped potatoes with stock and cheese, page 524, or with tomatoes and 
onions, page 525 


Other vegetables 


Braised white cabbage, page 383, red cabbage, page 384, or sauerkraut, 
page 385, which may cook with the pork 

Brussels sprouts braised in butter, or with cheese, page 451 or 453 

Braised leeks, page 495, or braised celery root, page 492 

Stuffed tomatoes, page 507; ratatouille (eggplant and tomato casserole), 
page 503 

Glazed onions, page 481, or turnips, page 488, which may cook with the 
pork 

See also the fruit suggestions (apples, peaches, and cherries) in the Duck 
section, pages 275 to 279; and the prunes in the Goose section, page 283 


WINE SUGGESTIONS 


Serve a dry white wine, Riesling, Traminer, white Côtes du Rhône, or a 
2 
rosé. 


* ROTI DE PORC POÊLÉ 


[Casserole-roasted Pork | 


As most French recipes call for a boneless roast, we shall so specify in 
this recipe and its variations. The loin is the most expensive cut and also the 


most attractive looking. But any other cut among those listed on page 378 may 
be substituted, and may be boned or not. 


For 6 people 


A 3-lb. boneless roast of Preheat oven to 325 degrees. Dry the meat thoroughly 
pork, previously mari- on paper towels. Place the fat in the casserole and set 
nated, if you wish, ac- over moderately high heat. When fat is almost smok- 
cording to one of the sug- ing, brown the pork on all sides. This will take about 
gestions on page 376 10 minutes. Remove pork to a side dish. 

4 Tb rendered pork fat, lard, 
or cooking oil 

A heavy fireproof casserole 
just large enough to hold l 
the meat 


ROAST PORK 


2 Tb butter, if needed 

1 sliced yellow onion 

1 sliced carrot 

Optional: 2 cloves unpeeled 
garlic | 

A medium herb bouquet: 4 
parsley sprigs, 1⁄2 bay leaf, 
and 1⁄4 tsp thyme tied in 
cheesecloth 


A bulb baster 


A hot platter 


14 cup dry white wine, stock, 
canned bouillon, or water 
A hot gravy boat 


(*) AHEAD-OF-TIME NOTE 


381 


Pour all but 2 spoonfuls of fat out of the casserole. If 
fat has burned, throw it all out and add more butter. 
Stir in the vegetables, optional garlic, and herb bou- 
quet. Cover and cook slowly for 5 minutes. 


Place the meat in the casserole, its fattiest side up. (If 
pork was not marinated, season it with salt and pep- 
per, and half a teaspoon of sage or thyme.) Cover the 
casserole and heat it until the meat is sizzling, then 
place in lower third of preheated oven for about 2 
hours or to a meat-thermometer reading of 180 to 185 
degrees. Baste the roast 2 or 3 times during this period 
with the juices in the casserole, and regulate oven 
heat so the pork is cooking slowly and evenly. The 
pork and vegetables will render about 1 cup of juices 
as they roast. 


When it is done, place the pork on a hot serving plat- 


ter and discard trussing strings. 


Pour the liquid into the casserole and simmer 
slowly for 2 to 3 minutes. Then tilt the casserole and 
skim out all but a tablespoon or two of fat. Mash the 
vegetables into the juices; boil rapidly until you 
have about 1 cup. Strain into a hot gravy boat. Sur- 
round the pork roast with whatever vegetable garnish 
you have chosen, and serve. 


If you are not serving immediately, return pork and sauce to casserole. 
Cover loosely and set in turned-off hot oven with door ajar. The meat will stay 


warm for a good half hour. 


VARIATIONS: SAUCES 


Any of the following sauces may be prepared while the pork is roasting, 
then simmered for a moment to blend with the degreased juices in the cas- 


serole. 


382 CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


Sauce Diable, peppery brown sauce, page 71 

Sauce Piquante, spicy brown sauce with pickles and capers, page 72 

Sauce Robert, brown mustard sauce, page 72 

Sauce Poivrade, peppery brown sauce with vinegar and wine for use es- 
pecially if the pork has been marinated in wine, page 70 

Sauce Tomate, a good tomato sauce, page 76 


x 


SN 





Sauce Moutarde à la Normande 


[Mustard Sauce with Cream | 


For about 2 cups 


After the pork has been cooked and placed on a plat- 
ter, keep it warm for 10 to 15 minutes while prepar- 
ing the sauce. 


Strain the meat juices into a bowl and degrease them. 


13 cup cider vinegar Pour the vinegar and peppercorns into the casserole 
10 crushed peppercorns and boil until the vinegar has reduced to about a 
tablespoon. Pour in the meat juices and boil them 
down rapidly until they have reduced to about 74 cup. 





14 cups whipping cream Add the cream and simmer for 5 minutes, stirring in 

Salt salt to taste. Beat in the mustard mixture and simmer 

z tsp dry mustard mixed 2 or 3 minutes more. Sauce should be thick enough 
with 2 tsp water to coat a spoon lightly. Correct seasoning. 

1 to 2 Tb softened butter Off heat and just before serving, swirl in the butter by 

A warm gravy boat bits, then pour the sauce into a warm gravy boat. 

VARIATIONS 


Rôti de Porc Grand’ Mère 


[Casserole-roasted Pork with Potatoes and Onions] 


Onions and potatoes absorb a distinctive flavor when they cook with 
pork in this manner. 


For 6 people 


A 3-lb. boneless roast of Roast the pork in a covered casserole with seasonings 
pork previously marinated as described in the master recipe, page 380, but omit 


ROAST PORK 383 


in salt for several hours, if the vegetables. After 1 hour, add potatoes and onions 
you wish, page 376 which have been prepared as follows: 


12 to 18 peeled white onions Pierce a cross in the root end of the onions, and boil 
1 to 14 inches in diameter them for 5 minutes in salted water. Drain. 


12 to 18 small new potatoes Drop the potatoes into a pan of boiling salted water. 
or “boiling” potatoes, Bring to the boil and boil 14 minute. Drain. Just be- 
peeled and cut into 142 fore adding the potatoes to the casserole, roll them for 


inch ovals 1 to 2 minutes in hot fat in skillet to brown very 
A skillet lightly. Season with salt and pepper. 
2 Tb rendered pork fat or 

cooking oil 


Salt and pepper 


After the pork has cooked for an hour, arrange the 
potatoes and onions around it and baste them with 
the juices in the casserole. Cover the casserole and re- 
turn it to the oven until the meat is done, basting the 
vegetables once or twice. 


A hot platter Remove the pork to a hot platter and arrange the 

1 to 2 Tb chopped parsley vegetables around it. Decorate with chopped parsley. 
Degrease the meat juices and either pour them over 
the vegetables, or into a hot gravy boat. 


Rôti de Porc aux Navets 

[Casserole-roasted Pork with Turnips] 

Turnips are wonderful when cooked in pork juices. Use the same general 
system described for the onions and potatoes in the preceding recipe. Peel and 


quarter the turnips; allow 4 to 6 pieces per person. Drop them in boiling water 
and boil 2 minutes. Drain. Add them to the casserole for the last hour of cook- 


ing. 





Rôti de Porc aux Choux 
[Casserole-roasted Pork with Cabbage] 
This is a great dish for lovers of cabbage. Serve it with boiled potatoes 


and a dry Alsatian wine, or beer. 
For 6 people 


384 


A 3-lb. boneless roast of pork 
previously marinated for 
several hours in salt, if you 
wish, page 376 


x lb. (about 6 cups) green or 
white cabbage cut into Z- 
inch slices 

A kettle containing 7 to 8 
quarts of rapidly boiling 
water with 1/2 tsp salt per 
quart of water 


Y, tsp salt 

Y tsp pepper 

Optional: 1⁄2 tsp caraway 
seeds 


A hot platter 
Salt and pepper 
Parsley sprigs 


CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


Roast the pork in a covered casserole with carrots, 
onions, and seasonings as described in the master 
recipe, page 380. After an hour, add the cabbage 
which has been. prepared as follows: 


Drop the cabbage into the boiling water. Bring rap- 


idly to the bojl and boil uncovered for 2 minutes. Im- 
mediately drain in a colander, and run cold water 
over the cabbage for a minute or two. Drain thor- 
oughly and set aside. 


After the pork has cooked for an hour, arrange the 


cabbage around it. Fluff salt, pepper, and the optional 
caraway seeds into the cabbage, and baste it with the 
juices in the casserole. Cover the casserole, bring to the 
simmer, and return it to the oven until the pork is 
done. Baste the cabbage several times with the meat 


juices during this period. 


Then remove the pork to a hot platter. Lift the cab- 
bage out of the casserole with a fork and spoon so it 
will drain, and arrange it around the meat. Season it 
with salt and pepper if necessary. Degrease the juices 
in the casserole and pour them over the cabbage. 
Decorate with sprigs of fresh parsley. 


x PORC BRAISE AUX CHOUX ROUGES 
[Pork Braised with Red Cabbage | 


A good dish of red cabbage is even better when a roast of pork is cooked 
with it. The casserole of cabbage cooks for 3 hours before the pork goes into 
it, and needs 2 hours more in the oven until the pork is done. 


For 6 people 


Ingredients for the braised 
red cabbage on page 496 
(omit the chestnuts if you 
wish, but they are a good 
accompaniment) 





Braise the cabbage for 3 hours in a 325-degree oven, 
following the directions in the recipe. 


BRAISED PORK 385 


A 3-lb. boneless roast of Brown the pork in hot fat in a skillet. After the cab- 
pork, previously mari- bage has cooked for 3 hours, place the pork in the 
nated for several hours in casserole with the cabbage. Cover the casserole and 
salt, if possible, page 376 return it to the oven to braise for two hours more or 

| until the pork is done. 


A hot platter - Then place the pork on a platter, drain the cabbage 

Salt and pépper and arrange it around the pork. Correct seasoning. 
Degrease and season the cooking juices, and pour 
them over the cabbage. 


i 


VARIATION 
Porc Braisé avec Choucroute 
[Pork Braised with Sauerkraut] 


Use exactly the same method as for red cabbage but substitute sauerkraut, 
page 498. After the sauerkraut has braised for 3 hours, brown the pork, add it 
to the casserole, and cook for another 2 hours or until the pork is done. 


PORC SYLVIE 
[Pork Stuffed with Cheese] 


A loin of pork is cut lengthwise from the top almost to the bottom to 
make 3 or 4 long leaves or slices so the roast may be opened up like a book. It 
is marinated for several hours, then stuffed with slices of Swiss cheese and 
cooked in a covered casserole. Follow the recipe for veau Sylvie, page 357, but 
use one of the pork marinades on page 376, and omit the slices of ham. 





PORK CHOPS AND STEAKS 
Côtes de Porc 


Pork chops and steaks are best, we think, when they are cut thick, 
browned on each side, then cooked in a covered casserole or skillet like the 
preceding casserole roasts of pork. 

Have the chops or steak cut between 1 to 124 inches thick, and ask that 
the backbone corners of chops be leveled or removed so the meat will lie per- 


386 CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


fectly flat on either side. All but a thin layer of fat should be trimmed off. The 
best chops are from the center loin or the rib loin. Second choices are the loin 
end or rump, shoulder loin chops, and blade and round-bone chops from the 
shoulder. Steaks are usually cut from the picnic shoulder or shoulder arm, or 
from the fresh ham. | . 

Usually 1 thick chop per person is sufficient. For steaks, count on 1 pound 
for 2 or 3 people. As steaks or chops are interchangeable in these recipes, we 
will call everything chops. 


VEGETABLE AND WINE SUGGESTIONS 


These are the same as the suggestions for roast pork on pages 379-80. 





x COTES DE PORC POELEES 
[ Casserole-sautéed Pork Chops] 


Three or four chops or one or two steaks may be cooked in a covered 
skillet on top of the stove. For a larger quantity oven-cooking in a covered cas- 
serole is easier. 


For 6 people 


Preheat oven to 325 degrees. 


6 pork chops cut x inch thick Dry the pork chops on paper towels. Heat the fat or 
and previously marinated oil in the casserole until it is moderately hot, then 
for several hours, if you brown the chops, 2 or 3 at a time, on each side for 3 to 
wish, in salt, lemon juice, 4 minutes. As they are browned, transfer them to a 

, or wine, page 376-7 side dish. 

3 to 4 Tb rendered pork fat, 
lard, or cooking oil 

A heavy, 10- to 12-inch fire- 
proof casserole 


If the chops have not been marinated, season them 
with salt, pepper, and 1⁄4 teaspoon of thyme or sage. 


? 


2 Tb butter Pour the fat out of the casserole and add the butter 
Optional: 2 halved cloves and optional garlic. Return the chops, overlapping 
garlic them slightly. Baste them with the butter. Cover and 


heat the casserole until the meat is sizzling, then set 
in lower third of preheated oven for 25 to 30 minutes. 


PORK CHOPS 


A hot platter 
2 cup dry white wine, dry 


white vermouth, brown . 


stock, canned beef bouil- 
lon, or marinade liquid 


(*) AHEAD-OF-TIME-NOTE 


387 


Turn and baste the chops once or twice. They are 
done when the meat juices run a clear yellow with no 
trace of rose. Make a deep cut next to the bone if you 
have any doubts. . 


Arrange the chops on a hot platter with whatever 


vegetable garnish you have chosen. The chops will 
have rendered about 4 cup of juices during their 
cooking; remove all but 2 tablespoons of fat from 
them. Pour‘in the 4 cup of liquid and boil rapidly, 
scraping up all coagulated cooking juices, until you 
have about 14 cup of concentrated sauce. Taste for 
seasoning, and pour it over the chops. 


If the chops are not to be served immediately, return them to the casse- 
role, baste them with the sauce, cover loosely, and keep warm in turned-off 


oven for 20 minutes or so. 


VARIATIONS: SAUCES 


Any of the sauces suggested for roast pork on page 382 may also be used 
for pork chops. Here is another suggestion: 


Côtes de Porc Sauce Nénette 
[Pork Chops with Mustard, Cream, and Tomato Sauce] 


1% cups whipping cream 
14 tsp salt 
Pinch of pepper 


1 Tb dry English mustard 
2 Tb tomato paste 


2 Tb fresh chopped basil, 
chervil, or parsley 


While the pork chops are cooking according to direc- 
tions in the master recipe, prepare the following: 


Simmer the cream, salt, and pepper in a small sauce- 
pan for 8 to 10 minutes, or until it has reduced to 1 
cup. 


Beat the mustard and tomato paste together in a small 
bowl, then beat in the hot cream. Set aside. 


After removing the chops from the casserole and de- 


greasing the meat juices, pour in the cream mixture 
and simmer for 3 or 4 minutes. Correct seasoning, 
stir in the herbs, and pour the sauce over the chops. 


388 


CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 





VARIATIONS 


Côtes de Porc Robert 
Côtes de Porc Charcutière 


[Pork Chops Braised in Fresh Tomato Sauce | 


Include sautéed potatoes and a chilled 'rdsé wine on the menu with this 
good dish of pork chops. If you stir chopped pickles and capers into the sauce 
just before serving the chops, they become côtes de porc charcutière. 


For 6 people 


6 pork chops cut 1 inch thick 
and previously marinated 
for several hours, if you 
wish, according to one of 
the formulas on page 376 

A heavy, 10- to 12-inch fire- 
proof casserole 


2 Tb butter 

1 cup minced yellow onions 

1 Tb flour 

1 lb. ripe tomatoes peeled, 
seeded, and chopped (114 
cups), page 505 

14 tsp salt 

78 tsp pepper 

14 tsp sage or thyme 
1 large clove mashed garlic 


= 


cup dry white wine or 74 

cup dry vermouth (in- 

clude marinade liquid, if 

any) 

2 cup brown stock or 
canned beef bouillon 

I to 2 Tb tomato paste 


Preheat oven to 325 degrees. Brown the chops in hot 


fat in the casserole as described in the master recipe, 
page 386, and set them aside. 


Pour out the browning fat, add the butter and onions, 


cover and cook slowly for 10 minutes. Mix in the 
flour and stir over low heat for 2 minutes more. Stir 
in the tomatoes and other flavorings. Cover and cook 
slowly for 5 minutes. 


Stir in the wine and stock or bouillon and simmer for 
10 minutes. Correct seasoning and stir in enough 
tomato paste to deepen the flavor and color of the 
sauce. 


è 


If the chops have not been marinated, season them 


with salt and pepper. Arrange them, slightly overlap- 
ping, in the casserole and baste them with the tomato - 
sauce. 

(*) May be done in advance to this point. 


PORK CHOPS 389 


Cover the casserole and bring to the simmer on top 
of the stove, then set it in the lower third of the pre- 
heated oven. Regulate oven temperature so casserole 
simmers slowly and regularly for 25 to 30 minutes or 
until the chops are done. 


A hot platter ' Arrange the chops on a serving platter. Degrease the 
1 to 2 Tb fresh chopped sauce and if necessary boil it down rapidly until it is 
basil or parsley lightly thickened. Correct seasoning and pour it over 


the chops. Sprinkle with herbs and serve. 


VARIATIONS: VEGETABLE SUGGESTIONS 


Browned pork chops may also finish their cooking for half an hour or so 
in a casserole of braised red cabbage, page 496, or braised sauerkraut, page 498. 
Or you can add blanched onions, carrots, new potatoes, or turnips to the cas- 
serole with the browned chops so the meat and vegetables finish their cooking 
in the oven together. 


PORK STEWS 


Ragoûts de Porc 


The following recipes for beef stew are also very good with pork rather 
than beef. Use boneless pork cuts which contain a mixture of fat and lean, such 
as shoulder loin chops, loin-end chops, or shoulder (Boston) butt. Cooking 
time is 2 to 244 hours rather than the 314 hours required for beef. 

Boeuf à la Catalane, stew with rice, onions, and tomatoes, page 321 

Daube de Boeuf, casserole with wine and vegetables, page 322 

Daube de Boeuf à la Provençale, casserole with wine, vegetables, ancho- 


vies, and garlic, page 324 





HAM 
Jambon 


Ham is a fine dish for large parties, but a parade of plain boiled or baked 
hams can become woefully monotonous especially around Christmas and 


390 CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


Easter. Here are a handful of French recipes which will lift any ham into /a 


grande classe. 


VEGETABLE SUGGESTIONS 
Classic accompaniment 


Spinach braised with cream or with stock, page 470-1 


Other vegetables 


Braised celery, page 491, celeriac, page 492, or lettuce, page 489 
Braised chestnuts, page 519, puréed chestnuts, page 518 

Braised onions, page 481, or leeks, page 495 

Mashed potatoes 


Fruits 


The French do not go in much for fruits and ham, but if you like them, 
see the prunes in wine in the Goose section, page 283, and the fruits suggested 
for duck on pages 278 to 279. 


WINE SUGGESTIONS 


The best choice is a not-too-heavy red wine such as Bordeaux-Médoc, or a 
Beaujolais, Macon, or Chinon. 


TYPE OF HAM TO BUY 


All of the recipes in this section call for cooked, mild-cured ham. In the 
recipes for whole braised ham, we have specified 8 to 10 pounds; a pound or 
two more will make little difference except in the braising time. You may buy 
whole ham, which always looks more festive, or half a ham, or a picnic or 
boned shoulder butt. We have allowed about 1 pound of bone-in ham for 2 
people. If the ham has been boned, 1 pound should serve 3 and possibly 4 peo- 
ple. When you buy ham, have the skin or rind removed, and cut off all but a 
l4-inch layer of covering fat. Hams labeled “fully cooked” usually require re- 
heating to an internal temperature of between 130 and 140 degrees. But you 
should test the meat anyway, to see if a fork will pierce it fairly easily; if not, - 
continue cooking until the ham is tender. 


HAM 


37 





x JAMBON BRAISE MORVANDELLE 


[Ham Braised in Wine—Cream and Mushroom Sauce] 


Ham heated in a covered roaster with aromatic vegetables, herbs, stock, 


and wine absorbs these different flavors, and the braising liquid is easily trans- 


formed into a good sauce. ` 


For 16 to 20 people 


14 lb. (about r cup) sliced 
carrots 

14 lb. (about 1 cup) sliced 
onions 

2 Tb butter and 1 Tb oil, or 
3 Tb rendered ham fat 

A heavy covered roaster or 
fireproof casserole just 
large enough to hold the 
ham 


An 8- to 10-lb. cooked ham 
or picnic shoulder, 
skinned, and trimmed of 
excess fat 

6 parsley sprigs 

1 bay leaf 

6 peppercorns 

12 tsp thyme 

3 whole cloves 

4 cups white Burgundy wine 
(Chablis or Pouilly- 
Fuissé) or 3 cups dry 
white vermouth 

4 to 6 cups white or brown 
stock or canned beef 
bouillon 


Optional glazing 


Powdered sugar in a shaker 
A shallow roasting pan con- 
taining a rack 


Preheat oven to 325 degrees. Sauté the vegetables in 


butter and oil or ham fat for about 10 minutes in the 
roaster or casserole until they are tender and very 


lightly browned. 


Place the ham over the vegetables, its fattiest side up, 


and add the rest of the ingredients at the left. Bring 
to the simmer on top of the stove, cover, and place 
the roaster or casserole in the middle level of the 
preheated oven. Regulate heat so liquid barely sim- 
mers for about 2 hours. Baste every 20 minutes. The 
ham is done when a trussing needle or sharp-pronged 
fork will pierce the thickest part of it fairly easily. 


When the ham is done, drain it. If you wish to glaze 
it, dust the top and sides with powdered sugar, and 
place it on the rack in the roasting pan. Heat oven to 


392 


CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


450 degrees. Place the ham in the upper third of the 
oven and let it brown lightly for 10 to 15 minutes. 
Basting is not necessary. 


Let the ham sit at room temperature for 20 to 30 min- 


utes before carving. If it is to wait longer, put it in the 
turned-off hot oven with door ajar where it can stay 
for an hour. The braising liquid is turned into a sauce 
as follows: 





Cream and Mushroom Sauce 


Version I 


2 lbs. sliced fresh mush- 
rooms 

3 Th butter 

1 Tb oil 

3 Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 

A large enameled skillet 

Salt and pepper 


The ham braising liquid 

4 cup Marc de Bourgogne, 
Madeira, or port 

A 2!4-quart enameled sauce- 
pan 

4 Tb flour mixed to a paste 
with 4 Tb softened butter 

2 to 3 cups whipping cream 


Dry the mushrooms in a towel. Sauté them for 5 to 
6 minutes in hot butter and oil until they are very 
lightly browned. Stir in the shallots or onions and 
sauté for a minute more. Season to taste and set aside. 


Degrease the braising liquid in the roaster. Set roaster 


over high heat and boil rapidly until liquid has re- 
duced to about 3 cups and is full of flavor. Add the 
marc or wine and simmer for a minute or two to 
evaporate the alcohol. Strain into a saucepan and beat 
in the flour and butter paste. Beat in 2 cups of cream, 
then stir in the sautéed mushrooms. Simmer for 5 
minutes. The sauce should be just thick enough to 
coat a spoon very lightly. Stir in more cream if sauce 
seems too thick. Taste carefully for seasoning. 

(*) If not to be served immediately, set aside un- 
covered, top of sauce filmed with a spoonful of cream 
to keep a skin from forming. Reheat when ready to 
serve. 


LA 


Version II, with egg yolks 


2 lbs. fresh sliced mush- 
rooms 


3 Tb butter 


Following Version I of the sauce, sauté the mush- 
rooms in butter and oil, adding the shallots or onions 
at the end. Degrease the ham braising liquid, reduce 


HAM 


1 Tb oil 

3 Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 

The ham braising liquid 

Y cup Marc de Bourgogne, 
Madeira, or port ` 


A 2'4-quart enameled sauce- 


pan 


5 egg yolks 
I tsp cornstarch (anticur- 


dling insurance) 
A 2-quart mixing bowl 
A wire whip 
2 cups whipping cream 


A wooden spoon 
2 to 1 cup whipping cream 
A warmed sauce bowl 


VARIATION 


393 


it to about 3 cups, add the marc or wine and simmer 
for a moment. Strain into the saucepan, add the sau- 
téed mushrooms and simmer for 5 minutes. 


Blend the egg yolks and cornstarch in the mixing 


bowl with wire whip. Beat in the cream. Then gradu- 
ally beat in about 114 cups of the ham braising liquid 
from the saucepan. Pour the mixture back into the 
saucepan with the rest of the braising liquid and 
mushrooms. 


(*) May be done in advance to this point. 


Shortly before serving, set saucepan over moderate 
heat and stir with a wooden spoon until the sauce 
thickens lightly, but do not let it come near the sim- 
mer (maximum temperature, 165 degrees) or the egg 
yolks will curdle. Stir in more cream by spoonfuls if 
the sauce seems too thick. It should coat a spoon 
lightly. Taste carefully for seasoning, pour into a 
warmed sauce bowl, and serve. 


Jambon Braisé au Madère 
[Ham Braised in Madeira Wine] 


The combined flavors of Madeira and ham have always been a favorite in 


France. Spinach braised in stock, broiled or stuffed mushrooms, and a red Bor- 


deaux-Médoc wine are good accompaniments for this dish. 


For 16 to 20 people 


1 cup sliced onions 

1 cup sliced carrots 

2 Tb butter 

1 Tb oil 

A covered roaster 

An 8- to 10-lb. cooked ham 
or picnic shoulder, 


Following the general directions in the preceding 


master recipe, preheat oven to 325 degrees. Cook the 
vegetables in butter and oil in the roaster until lightly 
browned. Place the ham in the roaster, pour in the 
wine, the stock or bouillon, and add the herbs. Bring 
to the simmer on top of the stove, cover, and bake 
very slowly for 2 to 21⁄4 hours, basting every 20 min- 


394 


skinned and trimmed of 
excess fat 

2 cups Madeira 

3 cups stock or canned beef 
bouillon 

6 parsley sprigs 

1 bay leaf 

12 tsp thyme 

Powdered sugar in a shaker 


3 Tb arrowroot (preferable 
to cornstarch as it does not 
cloud the sauce) 

2 Tb cold stock, wine, or 
truffle juice 

2 or 3 chopped, canned 
truffles and their juice 
OR, % cup mushroom 
duxelles (finely diced, 
sautéed mushrooms), page 


515 


3 Tb softened butter 
A warmed sauceboat 


CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


utes. When the ham is tender, glaze it with powdered 
sugar as described in the master recipe. 


Degrease the braising liquid and boil it down rapidly 


to 3 cups. Strain it into a saucepan. 


Blend the arrowroot with the cold liquid and beat it 
into the hot braising liquid. Stir in the truffles or 
mushrooms. Simmer for 5 minutes. Correct season- 
ing. Sauce will have a very light thickening; the but- 
ter enrichment will give it more body and character. 


Reheat when ready to serve. Off heat, beat in the but- 


ter by bits, and pour the sauce into a warmed sauce- 
boat. 


x JAMBON FARCI ET BRAISE 
[Braised Ham with Mushroom Stuffing] 


A fine dish for an important dinner is ham sliced into serving pieces, re- 
constructed with a stuffing between each slice, then braised in Madeira. 


For 12 to 14 people 


2 lbs. fresh mushrooms 

3 Tb butter 

1 Tb oil 

V2 cup minced shallots or 
green onions 


TT 

Trim, wash, and mince the mushrooms. A handful at 
a time, twist them into a ball in the corner of a towel 
to extract their juice. Sauté in the butter and oil with 
the shallots or onions for 8 to 10 minutes until the 
mushroom pieces begin to separate from each other. 


FPE 395 


4 cup Madeira or port Add the wine to the mushrooms and boil rapidly un- 
til the liquid has almost completely evaporated. 


À 
4 


Salt and pepper Scrape the mushrooms into a mixing bowl and season 
6 to 7 ounces or % cup with salt and pepper. Blend in the rest of the ingredi- 
mousse de foie gras, or ents. Taste carefully for seasoning, but do not salt too 
mousse de foie d’oie heavily because the ham is salted. 
(the latter is puréed liver 
from a plain goose and is 
much less expensive) 
12 tsp sage or thyme 
Pinch of allspice 
Optional: z or 2 diced, 
canned truffles (reserve 
their juice for your sauce) 


A 1o-lb. cooked ham, Cut the upper two thirds of the ham into neat, thin, 
skinned, and trimmed of horizontal serving slices, piling them to one side in 
excess fat -the order in which you slice them. Leave the lower 

A large square of well third of the ham intact to act as a cradle to hold the 
washed cheesecloth, if slices when you put them back. Spread a spoonful of 
needed the mushroom stuffing in the center of each slice and 

pile the slices back onto the ham, reconstructing it 
into approximately its original shape. If the slices 
have been arranged neatly and solidly on the ham, no 
tying is necessary to keep them in place while the ham 
braises. But if you are doubtful, wrap the ham in 
cheesecloth. 


Then braise the ham for about 2/4 hours with cooked 
vegetables, herbs, stock, and Madeira as described in 
the braising recipe, page 393. Serve it with the same 
Madeira sauce, and braised spinach, page 470. 





VARIATION 
Jambon Farci en Croûte 
[Stuffed Ham Baked in a Pastry Crust] 
A splendid way to serve the preceding sliced and stuffed ham is to bake 


it in a pastry crust. To do so, after stuffing and braising it, allow it to cool for 
about an hour. Then, following the directions for duck in a crust, page 571, 


396 


CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


surround it with a decorated pastry dough and bake it in a 375-degree oven 
for 30 to 40 minutes until the crust is cooked and nicely browned. 





HAM SLICES 


Tranches de Jambon 


Sliced ham responds to a number of interesting preparations which are 
relatively quick and simple to do. 


TRANCHES DE JAMBON EN PIPÉRADE 
[Ham Slices Baked with Tomatoes, Onions, and Peppers] 


This savory recipe for thick slices of smoked ham may be prepared for 
baking several hours before it is set in the oven. Sautéed potatoes, green beans, 
and a light red wine or a rosé go well with it. 


For 6 people 


212 to 3 lbs. of cooked ham, 
sliced ¥2 inch thick, and 
cut into serving pieces if 
you wish 

3 Tb rendered ham fat or 
olive oil 

A large skillet 

A shallow baking dish large 
enough to hold ham in 
one layer 


z cup sliced yellow onions 
1 cup sliced green bell pep- 
pers 


z lbs. firm, ripe, red toma- 
toes, peeled, seeded, juiced, 
and sliced, page 505 
(makes 3 cups of pulp) 


Trim off excess fat, and dry the ham slice or slices on 
paper towels. Heat the fat or olive oil in the skillet un- 
til it is almost smoking, then brown the ham lightly 
for a minute or two on each side. Remove skillet from 


heat and place the ham in the baking dish. 


Lower heat, and stir the onions into the fat in the 
skillet. Cover and cook slowly for 5 minutes. Stir in 
the peppers and cook 5 minutes more or until the 
vegetables are tender but not browned. 

? 


Spread the tomato pulp over the onions and peppers, 
add the garlic and seasonings. Cover and cook slowly 
for 5 minutes so the tomatoes will render their re* ` 
maining juice. Then uncover and boil for several 


HAM 


2 cloves mashed garlic 
V8 tsp pepper 

Pinch of cayenne pepper 
V4 tsp sage or thyme 


2 to 3 Tb minced parsley 


997 


minutes, shaking the skillet, until the tomato juice 
has almost entirely evaporated. 


Cover the browned ham with the vegetables. 


(*) May be done in advance to this point. 


“Preheat oven to 350 degrees. About 20 to 30 minutes 


before serving time, cover the baking dish and place 
it in the middle level of the oven and bake until 
the ham is heated through and tender when pierced 
with a fork. Baste with the juices in the dish and cor- 
rect seasoning, adding salt if necessary. Decorate with 
parsley and serve. 


TRANCHES DE JAMBON MORVANDELLE 


[Sautéed Ham Slices—Cream and Madeira Sauce] 


Placed on a bed of spinach braised in stock, surrounded with broiled 
mushrooms or sautéed potatoes, this is a delectable ham dish. Serve with it a 
light red wine, or a Chablis or Pouilly-Fuissé. 


For 6 people 


214 to 3 lbs. of cooked ham, 
sliced % inch thick 


2 Tb butter 
z Tb oil 
An enameled skillet 


3 Tb flour 

2 Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 

A wooden spoon 


1 cup very good ham stock, 
white or brown stock, or 
canned beef bouillon 

Y% cup Madeira or port 

A wire whip 

1 Tb tomato paste 

Big pinch of pepper 


Trim off excess fat, and cut the ham into serving 


pieces. Dry on paper towels. 


A few pieces at a time, brown the ham lightly for a 


minute on each side in hot butter and oil. Set the ham 
aside. 


Pour all but 214 tablespoons of fat out of the skillet. 


Stir in the flour with a wooden spoon, then the shal- 
lots or onions, and cook slowly for 2 or 3 minutes 
without browning. Remove from heat. 


Bring the stock or bouillon and wine to the simmer 


in a small saucepan. Blend it into the flour in the skil- 
let with a wire whip. Beat in the tomato paste and 


pepper. 


398 


1/2 cups whipping cream 
3 Tb cognac 


A hot platter on which, if 
you wish, is a mound of 
spinach braised in stock, 


page 470 


VARIATION 


CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


Bring the sauce to the simmer, stirring, then beat in 
the cream. Simmer for 4 or 5 minutes, allowing the 
sauce to reduce until it coats the spoon lightly. Taste 
carefully for seasoning but do not oversalt. Stir in the 
cognac. Then add the ham ‘slices and spoon the sauce 
over them. 

(*) May be done in advance to this point. Film 
surface with a spoonful of cream and set aside. 
Shortly before serving, bring to the simmer, cover, 
and simmer slowly for a minute or two until the ham 
is tender when pierced with a fork. Taste again for 
seasoning. Transfer the ham to a platter, or place it 
over a bed of braised spinach. Spoon the sauce over 
the ham and serve. 


Mix sliced, sautéed mushrooms into the sauce to simmer with the ham. 





TRANCHES DE JAMBON A LA CREME 


[Sautéed Ham Slices—Fresh Cream Sauce] 


This famous recipe is the same idea as the preceding one, but is made 
with a richer and more delicate sauce. 


For 6 people 


2% to 3 lbs. cooked ham, 
sliced 1⁄4 inch thick 


2 Tb butter 

1 Tb oil 

A 9- to ro-inch skillet 

2 Tb shallots or green 
onions 


73 cup Madeira or port and 
3 Tb cognac 
A wooden spoon 


2 cups whipping cream 
2 Tb Dijon-type prepared 


Trim off excess fat, cut the ham into serving pieces, 
and dry on paper towels. Brown the slices lightly on 
each side in hot butter and oil and set them aside. 
Pour all but a tablespoon of sautéing fat out of the 
skillet, stir in the shallots or onions, and cook slowly 
for 2 minutes. Pour in the wine and cognac and, 
scraping up the coagulated sauté juices with a wooden 
spoon, boil rapidly until the liquid has reduced to 3 
or 4 tablespoons. 


Add the cream to the skillet, beat in the mustard 
mixture, and the pepper. Simmer slowly for 10 to 15 


HAM 399 


mustard mixed with 1 Tb minutes, until the cream has reduced to about 14 
tomato paste and 2 Tb cups and has thickened lightly. Correct seasoning, but 
whipping cream do not oversalt. 


Big pinch of pepper 


A 


Æ 


Return the ham slices to the skillet and baste them 
with the sauce. 
(*) May be done ahead to this point. 


A hot platter on which, if Shortly before serving, bring to the simmer, cover and 
you wish, is a mound of simmer for several minutes until the ham is reheated 
spinach braised in stock, and tender. Arrange the ham on a hot platter or on 
page 470 the bed of spinach. Spoon the sauce over the ham and 

serve. 





FRENCH BAKED BEANS 
Cassoulet 


Cassoulet is a rich combination of beans baked with meats, as much a part 
of southwestern France as Boston baked beans are of New England. The com- 
position of a cassoulet is, in typical French fashion, the subject of infinite dis- 
pute, so much so that if you have read or heard about cassoulet and never 
tasted it, you come to expect a kind of rare ambrosia rather than the nourish- 
ing country fare it actually is. As cassoulet is native to a relatively large region 
of France, each part of which has its own specialties, arguments about what 
should go into this famous dish seem based on local traditions. Toulousains 
insist that it must include among its meats preserved goose, confit d’ove, or it is 
not a real-cassoulet. After all, something must be done with all the geese which 
housed the foze gras, and cassoulet is a natural solution in the Toulouse area. 
Then there are those who declare the cassoulet was born in Castelnaudary, and 
originally contained only beans, pork, and sausages. A heretical few suggest 
the cassoulet was not a French invention at all, but an adaption from the Arab 
fava bean and mutton stew. And so on, with variations and dogmatisms ramp- 
ant. Fortunately all the talk can be regarded as so much historical background, 
for an extremely good cassoulet can be made anywhere out of beans and what- 
ever of its traditional meats are available: goose, game, pork, sausages, lamb, 
mutton. The important item is favor, which comes largely from the liquid the 
beans and meats are cooked in. And truth to tell, despite all the to-do about 


400 CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


preserved goose, once it is cooked with the beans you may find difficulty in dis- 
tinguishing goose from pork. 

The following recipe makes no attempt to cut corners, for the concoction 
of a good cassoulet is a fairly long process. You can prepare it in one day, but 
two or even three days of leisurely on-and-off cooking are much easier. It calls 
for a roast loin of pork, shoulder of lamb braised in wine, homemade sausage 
cakes, and beans cooked with pork rind, fresh. bacon or salt pork, and aromatic 
vegetables. The meats are cut into serving pieces and arranged in a casserole 
with the beans and various cooking juices. Then the dish is baked in the oven 
for an hour to blend flavors. Time could be saved if the lamb were roasted 
whole or if leftover roast were used, but flavor would be lost, and there would 
be no splendid braising liquid to give character to the cassoulet. Polish sausage 
could cook with the beans, replacing the homemade sausage cakes. But after 
you have made the dish once or twice, you will see that you can pretty well in- 
vent your own formula as long as you supply excellent flavor through one 
means or another. Suggestions for other meats are at the end of the recipe. 


MENU SUGGESTIONS 
Any cassoulet worthy of the name is not a light dish, and is probably 
best served as a noontime dinner. The rest of the menu should consist of a 
simple first course if any—a clear soup, jellied soup, or oysters—then a green 
salad and fruits. For wine, choose a strong, dry rosé or white, or a young, full- 


bodied red. 


THE BEANS 

Most French recipes specify simply “dry white beans.” A few call for 
white beans from certain localities in France such as Cayence, Pamiers, Ma- 
zères, Lavelanet. We have found American Great Northern beans to be en- 
tirely satisfactory, but they should not be old and stale. If you wish to pressure- 
cook them instead of using the open-pot method, soak them as directed in the 
recipe, then add all the ingredients listed and, following the directions for 
your cooker, bring them quickly to 15 pounds pressure. Cook for exactly 3 
minutes, then allow the pressure to go down slowly by itself, 15 to 20 minutes. 
Let the beans stand uncovered in the cooking liquid for at least 30 minutes so 
they will absorb its flavor. 


A NOTE ON THE ORDER OF BATTLE 


All of the various steps leading up to the final assembly in the recipe be-* 
low may be carried on at various times or almost simultaneously. Once the cas- 


CASSOULET 


401 


soulet is made ready for the oven, it may be refrigerated and baked a day or 


two later. 





x CASSOULET DE PORC ET DE MOUTON 
[Beans Baked with Pork Loin, Shoulder of Mutton or Lamb, and Sau- 


sage] 
For 10 to 12 people 
The pork loin 


2/2 lbs. of boned pork loin, 
excess fat removed (It 
will taste even better if 
marinated overnight in 
salt and spices, page 376.) 


The beans 


2 lbs. or 5 cups dry white 
beans (Great Northern, 
preferably) 

An 8-quart kettle containing 
5 quarts of rapidly boiling 
water 


12 lb. fresh pork rind or salt 
pork rind 

A heavy saucepan 

Heavy shears 


A 1ī-lb. chunk of fresh, un- 
salted, unsmoked lean 
bacon (or very good 
quality lean salt pork sim- 
mered for 10 minutes in 2 
quarts of water and 


drained) 


Following directions on page 380, roast the pork to an 
internal temperature of 175 to 180 degrees. Set it aside 
to cool. Reserve cooking juices. 


Drop the beans into the boiling water. Bring rapidly 
back to the boil and boil for 2 minutes. Remove from 
heat and let the beans soak in the water for 1 hour; 
they will cook in the soaking water, and the cooking 
should proceed as soon as possible after the soaking 
process is completed. 


While the beans are soaking, place the rind in the 


saucepan and cover with 1 quart of cold water. Bring 
to the boil and boil 1 minute. Drain, rinse in cold wa- 
ter, and repeat the process. Then, with shears, cut the 
rind into strips 14 inch wide; cut the strips into small 
triangles. Cover the rind again with a quart of cold 
water, bring to the simmer, and simmer very slowly 
for 30 minutes. Set saucepan aside. This process fresh- 
ens the rind, and softens it so it will lose itself as it 
cooks with the beans. 


Place all the ingredients at the left in the kettle with 


the soaked beans. Bring to the simmer. Skim off any 
skum which may rise. Simmer slowly, uncovered, for 
about 114 hours or until the beans are just tender. 
Add boiling water if necessary during cooking, to 
keep beans covered with liquid. Season to taste near 
end of cooking. Leave beans in their cooking liquid 


” 


402 


1 cup (4 ounces) sliced 
onions 

The pork rind and its cook- 
ing liquid 

A large herb bouquet, with 
garlic and cloves: 6 to 8 
parsley sprigs, 4 unpeeled 
cloves garlic, 2 cloves, 12 
tsp thyme, and 2 bay 
leaves tied in cheesecloth 

No salt until later if you 
have used salt pork; other- 
wise 1 Tb salt 


The lamb or mutton 


2 to 2/2 lbs. boned shoulder 
or breast of mutton or 
almost mature lamb, fell 
(skin covering meat) and 
excess fat removed 

4 to 6 Tb rendered fresh 
pork fat, pork-roast drip- 
pings, goose fat, or cook- 
ing oil; more if needed 

A heavy, 8-quart fireproof 
casserole 

About 1 lb. cracked mutton 
or lamb bones; some pork 
bones may be included 


2 cups (% Ib.) minced on- 


ions 


4 cloves mashed garlic 

6 Tb fresh tomato purée, 
tomato paste, or 4 large 
tomatoes peeled, seeded, 
and juiced, page 505 

12 tsp thyme 

2 bay leaves 

3 cups dry white wine or 2 
cups dry white vermouth 

I quart brown stock or 3 


CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


until ready to use, then drain. Reserve cooking liquid. 


Remove the bacon or salt pork and set aside. Discard 
the herb packet. 


Cut the lamb or mutton into chunks roughly 2 inches 
square. Dry each piece in paper towels. Pour a 146- 
inch layer of fat into the casserole and heat until the 
fat is almost smoking. Brown the meat, a few pieces 
at a time, on all sides. Set the meat on a side dish. 
Brown the bones and add them to the meat. If fat has 
burned, discard it and add 3 tablespoons of fresh fat. 
Lower heat, and brown the onions lightly for about 5 
minutes. 





Return the bones and lamb or mutton to the casserole 
and stir in all ingredients on the left. Bring to the 
simmer on top of the stove, season lightly with salt. 
Cover and simmer slowly on top of the stove or in a 
325-degree oven for 114 hours. Then remove the meat 
to a dish; discard the bones and bay leaves. Remove 
all but 2 tablespoons fat and carefully correct season- 
ing of cooking liquid. 


3 


CASSOULET 


cups canned beef bouillon 
and z cup water 


Salt and pepper 


403 


Final flavoring of beans 


Pour the cooked and drained beans into the lamb 


cooking juices. Stir in any juices you may have from 


the roast pork. Add bean cooking liquid, if necessary, 
so beans are covered. Bring to the simmer and simmer 
5 minutes, ‘then let the beans stand in the liquid for 
10 minutes to absorb flavor. Drain the beans when 
you are ready for the final assembly farther on. 


Homemade sausage cakes—a substitute for Saucisse de Toulouse 


1 Ib. (2 cups) lean fresh pork 
134 lb. (% cup) fresh pork 


fat 


A meat grinder 

A 3-quart mixing bowl 

A wooden spoon 

2 tsp salt 

1% tsp pepper 

Big pinch allspice 

14 tsp crumbled bay leaf 

l4 cup armagnac or cognac 
A small clove mashed garlic 
Optional: 1 chopped truffle 


and the juice from the can 


Final assembly 


An 8-quart fireproof cas- 


N 


w 


serole 5 to 6 inches high: 
brown earthenware glazed 
inside is typical, but other 
types of glazed pottery 
or enameled iron will do 
nicely 

cups dry white bread 
crumbs mixed with 14 cup 
chopped parsley 
to 4 Tb pork roasting fat 
or goose fat 


Put the pork and fat through the medium blade of 
the meat grinder. Place in bowl and beat in the rest 
of the ingredients on the left. Sauté a small spoonful 
and taste for seasoning, adding more to the mixture if 
you feel it necessary. Form into cakes 2 inches in di- 
ameter and 4 inch thick. Brown lightly over mod- 
erate heat in a skillet. Drain on paper towels. 


Cut the roast pork into 114 to 2 inch serving chunks. 
Slice the bacon or salt pork into serving pieces 14 inch 
thick. Arrange a layer of beans in the bottom of the 
casserole, then continue with layers of lamb or mut- 
ton, roast pork, bacon slices, sausage cakes, and beans, 
ending with a layer of beans and sausage cakes. Pour 
on the meat cooking juices, and enough bean cooking 
juice so liquid comes just to the top layer of beans. 
Spread on the crumbs and parsley, and dribble the fat 
on top. 

(*) Set aside or refrigerate until you are ready to take 
up the final cooking of about an hour. The cassoulet 


404 CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


should be served soon after its baking, so it will not 
dry out or overcook. 


Baking 


Preheat oven to 375 degrees. Bring the casserole tò the simmer on top of the stove. 
Then set it in the upper third of the preheated oven. When the top has crusted 
lightly, in about 20 minutes, turn the oven down to 350 degrees. Break the crust 
into the beans with the back of a spoon, and baste with the liquid in the casserole. 
Repeat several times, as the crust forms again, but leave a final crust intact for 
serving. If the liquid in the casserole becomes too thick during the baking period, 
add a spoonful or two of bean cooking liquid. The cassoulet should bake for about 
an hour; serve it from its casserole. 


VARIATIONS 


Here are some additions or substitutions for the meats in the preceding 
recipe. 

Preserved Goose, Confit d’Oie. This is goose, usually from the foie gras 
regions of France, which has been cut into wing, leg, and breast sections, 
poached in goose fat, and preserved in goose fat. It can usually be bought in 
cans from one of the food-importing stores. Use it instead of, or even in addi- 
tion to, the roast pork in the recipe. Scrape the fat off the pieces of goose, and 
cut the goose into serving portions. Brown them lightly in some of the fat from 
the can. Arrange the goose in the casserole with the beans and meats for the 
final baking. 

Fresh Goose, Duck, Turkey, or Partridge. Roast or braise any of these, 
_and carve into serving pieces. Use along with or instead of the roast pork in 
the recipe, arranging the pieces with the beans and meats in the casserole for 
the final baking. 

Ham Hock or Veal Shank. Simmer either of these with the beans. Cut 
into serving pieces before arranging in the casserole for the final baking. 

Polish Sausage. This sausage can usually be bought in any American 
market, and is a good substitute for such French sausages as de campagne, de 
ménage, à cuire, à l'ail, or de Morteau. First simmer the whole sausage for 4 
hour with the beans. Then cut it into 14-inch slices and arrange in the casserole 
with the beans and the other meats for the final baking. Polish sausage may be 
used instead of or in addition to the sausage cakes in the recipe. s 


CALF’S LIVER 405 


SAUTEED CALF’S LIVER 
Foie de Veau Sauté 


It is most important that calf’s liver be sautéed in very hot butter and oil, 
so a crust will form on the-outside which will keep the juices in. Do not crowd 
the skillet, use two skillets if necessary, and do not use a skillet too large for 
your source of heat. Sautéed liver should be pink inside, its juices will run a 
very pale rose when the meat is pricked with a fork. Have the liver cut into 
even slices % inch thick, and ask that the surrounding filament be peeled off 
each slice; if this is left on, the liver will curl as it cooks. 


WINE AND VEGETABLE SUGGESTIONS 


Broiled tomatoes, braised spinach, or ratatouille (eggplant and tomato 
casserole, page 503), and sautéed potatoes go well with liver. Wine choices 
would be chilled rosé, or a light red such as Bordeaux or Beaujolais. 


x FOIE DE VEAU SAUTE 
[Sautéed Calf’s Liver | 


For 6 people 


6 to 12 slices of calf’s liver Just before sautéing, season the slices with salt and 
3% inch thick, with sur- pepper, roll in flour, and shake off excess flour. 
rounding filament re- 
moved 

Salt and pepper 

12 cup of sifted flour on a 
large plate 





1 or 2 heavy skillets Place the butter and oil in the skillet or skillets and 
2 Tb butter and 1 Tb oil for set over high heat until you see that the butter foam 
each skillet has almost subsided, indicating it is hot enough. Then 
A hot platter arrange the liver in the skillet, leaving a 14-inch 
A vegetable garniture, wa- space between each slice. Sauté for 2 to 3 minutes, 
ter cress, or parsley regulating heat so butter is always very hot but not 


burning. Turn the liver with a spatula and sauté for 


406 CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


a minute or so on the other side. The liver is done 
when its juices run a very pale pink if a slice is pricked 
with a fork. Remove the liver to a hot platter and 
serve, surrounded by whatever garniture you have 
chosen, or decorated* with. water cress or sprigs of 
parsley. 


` 


SAUCES TO SERVE WITH SAUTÉED LIVER 


Sauce Crème à la Moutarde 


[Cream and Mustard Sauce] 


For about 1 cup 


⁄ cup brown stock or As soon as the liver has been removed to a platter, 


canned beef bouillon pour the stock or bouillon into the skillet and boil 
34 cup whipping cream down rapidly until it has reduced by half. Then add 
the cream and boil for a moment to reduce and 

thicken it slightly. 


1 Tb prepared mustard, Off heat, swirl the mustard-butter into the skillet. 
mashed with 2 Tb sof- Pour the sauce around the liver, decorate with pars- 
tened butter ley, and serve. 

Parsley sprigs 


ml 


Other Sauces 


The sauces in the following list can be prepared in advance; either serve 
them separately, or pour them around the sautéed liver. About 114 cups should 
be sufficient. 

Coulis de Tomates, fresh tomato purée with herbs, page 78 

Sauce Robert, brown sauce with mustard and onions, page 72 

Sauce Brune aux Fines Herbes, brown herb sauce, page 73 

Sauce à l'Italienne, tomato-flavored brown sauce with diced mushrooms, 
diced ham, and herbs, page 411 Í 

Beurres Composés, flavored butters, pages 100 to 103. These include butter 
creamed with mustard, with herbs, with garlic, and with wine and herbs. 
Spread a spoonful over each slice of sautéed liver, or cut chilled, favored butter 
into pieces and pass separately. | | 


CALF’S LIVER 


407 





FOIE DE VEAU A LA MOUTARDE 
[Liver with Mustard, Herbs, and Bread Crumbs] 


This is an appealing way to prepare liver. It is sautéed very briefly to 
brown lightly, then painted with mustard and herbs, rolled in fresh bread 
crumbs, basted with melted butter, and set under a hot broiler to brown the 
crumbs. The preliminary sautéing and crumbing may be done several hours in 
advance of the final cooking, which takes about 5 minutes. For this recipe, the 
liver is sliced thicker, so it will not cook too quickly. 


For 6 servings 


6 slices of calf’s liver cut 4 
inch thick, outside fila- 
ment removed 

Salt and pepper 

12 cup sifted flour on a large 
plate 

2 Tb butter 

1 Tb oil 

A heavy skillet 


3 Tb prepared mustard of 
the strong, Dijon type 

1 Tb finely minced shallots 
or green onions 

3 Tb minced parsley 

12 clove mashed garlic 

Pinch of pepper 

3 cups fine, white, fresh 
bread crumbs spread on a 
large plate 

A greased broiling pan 


6 Tb melted butter 
A hot platter 


Season the liver with salt and pepper, dredge in flour, 


and sauté for 1 minute on each side in very hot butter 
and oil. The slices should be very lightly browned 
and slightly stiffened, but not cooked through. Re- 
move to a dish. 


Beat the mustard in a small bowl with the shallots or 


onions and seasonings. Drop by drop, beat in the liver 
sautéing fat to make a mayonnaiselike cream. Paint 
the liver slices with the mixture. One by one, lay the 
slices in the bread crumbs and heap bread crumbs on 
top, gently shake off excess, and pat the adhering 
crumbs in place with the flat of a knife. Arrange the 
liver on the broiling pan. 

(*) If not to be broiled immediately, cover with 
waxed paper and refrigerate. 


Shortly before serving, heat broiler to very hot. 


Baste the liver with half the melted butter. Place so 
its surface is about 2 inches from the broiler heat to 
brown for a minute or two. Turn, baste with the re- 
maining butter, and brown the other side quickly. 
Arrange on a hot platter and serve. 


408 CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 





SWEETBREADS AND BRAINS 


Ris de Veau et Cervelles 


Sweetbreads and brains have much the same texture and flavor, but brains 
are more delicate. They both receive almbst she same treatments. Both must be 
soaked for several hours in cold water before they are cooked, to soften the fila- 
ment which covers them so that it may be removed, to dissolve their bloody 
patches, and to whiten them. Some authorities direct that they always be 
blanched before cooking—that is, poached in salted and acidulated water or a 
court bouillon; others do not agree. If the sweetbreads or brains are to be 
braised, blanching is a useless and flavor-losing step. If they are to be sliced 
and sautéed, blanching firms them up so they are easier to cut, but removes 
some of their delicacy and tenderness. Both brains and sweetbreads are perish- 
able, and if they are not to be cooked within 24 hours, they should be soaked 
and blanched which will help to preserve them. 


SOAKING SWEETBREADS AND BRAINS 


Wash in cold water, then place in a bowl and soak in several changes of 
cold water or under a dripping tap for 114 to 2 hours. Delicately pull off as 
much as you easily can of the filament which encloses them, without tearing 
the flesh. This is a rather slow process. Soak them again for 1}, to 2 hours, this 
time in several changes of cold water containing 1 tablespoon of vinegar per 
quart. Peel off as much more filament as you can, and they are ready for trim- 
ming and cooking. 


TRIMMING 


A whole sweetbread, which is the thymus gland of a calf and usually 
weighs about 1 pound, consists of 2 lobes connected by a soft, white tube, the 
cornet. The smoother, rounder, and more solid of the two lobes is the kernel, 
heart, or zoix, and choicest piece. The second lobe, called throat sweetbread or 
gorge, is more uneven in shape, broken by veins, and is often slit. Separate the 
two lobes from the tube with a knife. The tube may be added to the stock pot. 

For brains, cut off white, opaque bits at the base. 


SWEETBREADS AND BRAINS 


409 


EE 
BLANCHING SWEETBREADS 


Sweetbreads, trimmed and 
soaked as in preceding 
directions 

An enameled saucepan just 
large enough to hold them 

Cold water 

Per quart of water: 1 tsp 
salt and 1 Tb lemon juice 


Place sweetbreads in saucepan and cover by 2 inches 
with cold water; add salt and lemon juice. Bring to 
simmer and cook, uncovered, at barest simmer for 15 


_ minutes. Drain and plunge into cold water for 5 


minutes. Drain. The sweetbreads are now ready for 
sautéing. 





BLANCHING BRAINS 


Brains, trimmed and soaked 
as in preceding directions 

An enameled saucepan just 
large enough to hold them 

Boiling water 

Per quart of water: 1 tsp 
salt and 1 Tb lemon juice 


Place brains in saucepan and cover by 2 inches with 
boiling water; add salt and lemon juice or vinegar. 
Heat to just below simmer and maintain water at a 
not-quite-simmering temperature, timing as follows: 

Lamb brains, 15 minutes 

Calf or pork brains, 20 minutes 

Beef brains, 30 minutes 


Then set saucepan aside and let the brains cool for 
20 minutes in the cooking liquid; if they are not to 
be used until later, set saucepan in refrigerator. Drain 
the brains, and they are ready for sautéing, page 413. 


PRESSING BLANCHED BRAINS OR SWEETBREADS UNDER A WEIGHT 


Some cooks like to weight blanched sweetbreads or brains for 2 to 3 hours 
under a heavy dinnerplate. This forces the water out of them, and flattens them 
so they are easy to cut into narrow slices. Follow this system or not, as you wish. 





SWEETBREADS 


* RIS DE VEAU BRAISES 


[Braised Sweetbreads | 


Braising is a preliminary cooking for sweetbreads, and you will note that 
no blanching is required. The soaked and peeled sweetbreads are first cooked 


410 CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


slowly in butter to firm them a little and to render some of their juices; they 

are then baked with wine and other flavorings. After this cooking, or braising, 

which may take place as long as the day before you are to use them, the sweet- 

breads are ready for saucing and serving. Sauced sweetbreads may be arranged 

in a ring of rice or risotto, in a vol-au-vent or pastry shell, on a platter, or they 

may be gratinéed. Drained, braised sweetbreads are also good cold, in a salad. 
" 


VEGETABLE AND WINE SUGGESTIONS 


Rice or risotto, and buttered peas or creamed or braised spinach go well 
with sweetbreads. Serve a light red wine such a Bordeaux-Médoc, or a rosé 
with sweetbreads in brown sauce; a white Burgundy or a white Graves with 


sweetbreads in cream sauce. 


For 6 people 


14 cup each: finely diced Cook the diced vegetables and ham slowly in the 
carrots, onions, celery, and butter with the herb bouquet and seasonings for 10 
diced ham to 15 minutes, until tender but not browned. 

4 Tb butter 

A medium herb bouquet: 

4 parsley sprigs, 1⁄4 tsp 
thyme, and 1% bay leaf 
tied in cheesecloth 

V8 tsp salt 

Pinch of pepper 

A to-inch enameled skillet 


12 tsp salt Season the sweetbreads. Arrange them in the skillet 
Big pinch of pepper and baste them with the butter and vegetables. Cover 


1 to 2 lbs. sweetbreads pre- and cook slowly for 5 minutes. Turn, baste, and cook 
viously soaked, peeled, 5 minutes more. They will render quite a bit of juice. 
and trimmed as directed 
on page 408 


A buttered fireproof casse- Transfer the sweetbreads to the casserole. 
role or baking dish about 
7 inches in diameter, or i 
just large enough to hold 
the sweetbreads in one 
layer 





Preheat oven to 325 degrees. 


SWEETBREADS AND BRAINS 


34 cup dry white wine or 14 
cup dry white vermouth 

1 cup brown stock or canned 
beef bouillon if you are 
serving a brown sauce; 1 


cup white stock or canned 


chicken broth if you are 
serving a white sauce 


VARIATIONS 


AXE 


Pour the wine into the skillet with the sweetbread 
juices and vegetables, and boil down rapidly until the 
liquids have reduced to 4 cup. Then pour the liquids, 
vegetables, and herb bouquet over the sweetbreads; 
add sufficient stock, bouillon, or broth barely to cover 
them. 


Bring to the simmer on top of the stove. Cover the 
casserole and place in lower third of oven. Regulate 
heat so the sweetbreads cook at the barest simmer for 
45 minutes. 

(*) Let the sweetbreads cool in their cooking stock 
until you are ready to use them. 


Ris de Veau Braisés à l’Italienne 


[Braised Sweetbreads with Brown Mushroom Sauce | 


For 6 people 


The braised sweetbreads in 
the preceding recipe 


1 Tb cornstarch blended 
with 1 Tb dry white wine 
or vermouth 

1 Tb tomato paste 

14 Ib. finely diced fresh 
mushrooms sautéed in 
butter, page 513 

14 cup diced, boiled ham 

Salt and pepper 


2 Tb minced green herbs 
such as parsley, chervil, 
and tarragon, or parsley 


only 


Remove the sweetbreads from the braising casserole. 
Drain, cut into 14-inch slices, and set aside. 


Rapidly boil down the cooking stock in the casserole 
to 114 cups. Remove from heat and discard herb bou- 
quet. (The braising vegetables and ham remain, and 
become a part of the sauce.) Beat in the starch mix- 
ture and the tomato paste. Stir in the mushrooms and 
additional ham; simmer for 3 minutes, stirring. Cor- 
rect seasoning and fold in the sliced sweetbreads. 

(*) If not to be served immediately, film sauce with a 
spoonful of stock. 


Reheat for 2 to 3 minutes at below the simmer just 
before serving. Arrange on a serving dish, or in a 
patty shell or ring of rice. Sprinkle with herbs, and 
serve. 


412 CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


"| 


Ris de Veau à la Crème 
Ris de Veau à la Maréchale 


[Creamed Sweetbreads] 





L 
11⁄4 to 2 lbs. braised sweet- Cut the braised sweetbreads into slices 4 inch thick 
breads, master recipe and set aside. Rapidly boil down their cooking stock 
until it has reduced to 114 cups. 





A 6-cup enameled saucepan In a separate pan, cook the butter and flour slowly to- 

242 Tb butter gether until they foam for 2 minutes without brown- 

3 Tb flour ing. Off heat, strain in the hot cooking stock and beat 
vigorously to blend. Bring to the simmer, stirring, for 
1 minute. Sauce will be very thick. 


24 to x cup whipping cream Beat in 4 cup of cream, simmering, then beat in more 

Salt and pepper by spoonfuls until the sauce thins out and coats the 

Drops of lemon juice spoon nicely. Correct seasoning, adding drops of 
lemon juice if you feel it necessary. 


Replace the sweetbreads in their original casserole, or 
in a fireproof serving dish, and pour the sauce over 
them. 

(*) If not to be served immediately, film top with a 
spoonful of cream. 


2 Tb minced, mixed green Reheat for 3 to 4 minutes at below the simmer before 
herbs or parsley serving, then decorate with the herbs. 





Ris de Veau a la Créme et aux Champignons 


[Creamed Sweetbreads with Mushrooms] 


Ingredients for the preced- After making the sauce, stir in the mushrooms and 
ing creamed sweetbreads simmer for 10 minutes, allowing the sauce to reduce 

m Ib. sliced fresh mush- slightly as the mushrooms will thin it out. Then pro- 
rooms ceed with the recipe. 


SWEETBREADS AND BRAINS 413 





Ris de V eau au Gratin 


[Sweetbreads au Gratin] 


Ingredients for the braised Arrange the sliced sweetbreads in a buttered baking 
sweetbreads on page 409 dish or individual shells or dishes. Pour sauce over 
and any of the preceding them. Sprinkle on the cheese, and dot with the butter. 
sauces Set aside until ready to serve. 

V4 cup grated Swiss cheese 

1 Tb butter, cut into bits 


About 10 minutes before serving, place 7 to 8 inches 
under a moderately hot broiler to heat the sweetbreads 
through and to brown the top of the sauce lightly. 


ESCALOPES DE RIS DE VEAU SAUTES 


[Sweetbreads Sautéed in Butter | 


These are done exactly like brains sautéed in butter, and are accompanied 
by any of the sauces suggested at the end of that recipe, page 415. 


BRAINS 


Although calf’s brains are those most universally known in America, 
lamb brains are equally good. Mutton, pork, and beef brains are less delicate 
in texture than calf brains and are best when braised, but you may sauté them 
if you wish. Soaking and peeling directions for brains are at the beginning of 
this section on page 408. We shall call everything in the following recipes calf’s 
brains with the understanding that calf, lamb, mutton, pork, and beef brains 
are interchangeable though their cooking times differ slightly as indicated in 
the blanching directions on page 409. 





x CERVELLES AU BEURRE NOIR 


[Calf’s Brains in Brown Butter Sauce] 


Brown butter sauce and calf’s brains are almost synonyms, they go so well 
together. To be at its best, the sauce should always be made separately, not in 


414 CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


the pan in which you sautéed the brains. It is thus clear and unspeckled, and 
also much more digestible. In addition, as the brains can be sautéed only at the 
last minute, the dish will then be ready to serve almost at once. 

Of the several methods for cervelles ay heurre noir, we have chosen that 
of pre-cooking the brains, slicing them, marinating them in a vinaigrette, then 
sautéing and saucing them. As alternatives, you may simply pour a brown 
butter sauce over hot, blanched brains, or yoù may omit the pre-cooking and 
marination altogether. In this case, slice raw, soaked, and trimmed brains, sea- 
son, dredge in flour, and sauté them; then pour the sauce over them. 


VEGETABLE AND WINE SUGGESTIONS 


This dish often constitutes ‘a separate course, but if you wish to serve the 
brains as a main course, accompany them with mashed or parsley potatoes and 
either buttered green peas or the spinach braised in stock on page 470. Wine 
choices would be a light red, such as Bordeaux-Medoc, or a rosé; good but less 


usual would be a white Burgundy. 


For 6 people as a main course 


1¥% lbs. calfs brains, pre- 
viously soaked, trimmed, 
and blanched according 
to directions on page 409 


3 Tb lemon juice 

W% tsp salt 

A 2/2 quart mixing bowl 
Pinch of pepper 

1 Tb olive oil 

z Tb minced parsley 


1 cup brown butter sauce, 
page 98, with or without 
capers 


1 cup flour sifted into a dish 
1 or 2 heavy skillets 


2 Tb butter and 1 Tb oil for 
each skillet 


Cut the blanched brains into slices 14 inch thick. 


Beat the lemon juice and salt in the bowl until the 


salt has dissolved. Then beat in the pepper, oil, and 
parsley. Fold the sliced brains into the sauce. Marinate 
for 30 minutes, or until you are ready to sauté them. 


While the brains are marinating, prepare the sauce 
and keep hot over simmering water. 


Just before sautéing, drain the brains. Roll in the flour 


and shake off excess flour. 


Set the skillet or skillets over moderately high heat 


with the butter and oil. As soon as you see that the 
butter foam has almost subsided, brown the brains 
lightly for 3 to 4 minutes on each side. 


SWEETBREADS AND BRAINS 415 


A hot platter Arrange on a hot platter, pour the hot butter sauce 
over them, and serve. 





VARIATIONS: SAUCES 


Sauce à l’Italienne, tomato-flavored brown sauce with diced mushrooms, 
diced ham, and herbs, page 411 
Coulis de Tomates, fresh tomato sauce with herbs, page 78 


CERVELLES BRAISEES 
| Braised Calf’s Brains | 
The brains are cooked in butter with aromatic vegetables, herbs, wine, 
and stock. Follow the recipe for braised sweetbreads, page 409, and use the 
same sauces, but the oven-simmering times are: 
20 minutes for lamb brains 


30 minutes for calf and pork brains 
45 minutes for beef brains 


CERVELLES EN MATELOTE 


[Calf’s Brains in Red Wine with Mushrooms and Onions] 


This dish makes a complete course in itself. Serve a light red Burgundy 


or Macon wine. 


For 6 people 


2 cups good, young, red Bring the wine and stock or bouillon to the simmer 
wine (Mâcon or Bur- in the saucepan with the herbs and garlic. Add the 


gundy) . brains, bring to the simmer, and cook uncovered 
1 cup brown stock or canned at just below the simmer for 20 minutes. Allow the 
beef bouillon brains to cool in the cooking liquid for 20 minutes, so 


An enameled saucepan just they will absorb flavor, and firm up. Then drain 


416 


large enough to hold the 
brains in one layer 

14 tsp thyme 

4 sprigs of parsley 

12 bay leaf 

1 clove mashed garlic 

1% lbs. calfs brains, pre- 
viously soaked and peeled, 
page 408 

A buttered, fireproof serving 
dish 


12 Tb tomato paste 

2 Tb flour mashed to a paste 
with 2 Tb softened butter 

Salt and pepper 


24 small, brown-braised on- 
ions, page 483 

14 lb. fresh mushrooms sau- 
téed in butter, page 513 


ò 
I to 2 Tb softened butter 


12 heart-shaped croútons 
(white bread sautéed in 
clarified butter), page 199 

2 to 3 Tb minced parsley 


CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


them, slice into 14-inch pieces, and arrange in the 
buttered serving dish. 


Beat the tomato paste into the cooking stock, and 
boil’ down rapidly until the liquid has reduced to 112 
cups. Off heat, beat in the flour-butter paste. Boil, 
stirring, for 1 minute. Correct seasoning. 


Arrange the onions and mushrooms around the 
brains, and strain the sauce over the brains and vege- 
tables. 

(*) If not to be served immediately, film the sauce 
with a spoonful of stock or melted butter. 


Just before serving, set over. low heat to warm 


through for 3 to 4 minutes without simmering. Off 
heat, tip dish, add butter, a half-tablespoon at a time, 
and baste brains and vegetables with the sauce until 
the butter has absorbed. 


Decorate with crogtons and parsley, and serve. 


VEAL AND LAMB KIDNEYS 
Rognons de Veau et de Mouton 


Cooked kidneys should be tender and slightly pink near the center. The 
bursting-out of juices is always a problem when they are sautéed in slices. Un- 
less your source of heat is a very strong one, within a few seconds after the 
slices hit the pan their juices pour out and the kidneys boil and toughen rather 


KIDNEYS 417 


than sauté. An excellent solution—and, in fact, the best method for kidneys in 
our experience—is to cook the whole kidney in butter, then slice it, and warm 
the slices briefly in a sauce. However, if you prefer to sauté raw sliced kidneys, 
do so in very hot butter and oil for only 2 to 3 minutes. They do not brown; 
they just cook through, turning a uniform gray outside but remaining some- 
what pink inside. Then remove the kidneys to a hot dish, make one of the 
sauces described in the following recipes, and return the kidneys to warm in 
the sauce without boiling. 
Any of the following recipes may be done at the table in a chafing dish. 


LAMB KIDNEYS 


All of the following recipes are for veal kidneys, but are equally applicable 
to lamb kidneys. Allow 2 or 3 lamb kidneys per person. Cook them whole in 
butter as described in the master recipe, but only for 4 to 5 minutes rather than 
the ro for veal kidneys. Then proceed with the recipe. 


PREPARATION FOR COOKING 


Both lamb and veal kidneys are encased in a layer of fat which has usually 
been peeled off, presumably without breaking the kidneys, before you buty- 
them. Under this is a thin filament surrounding the kidney; it should also be 
peeled off. Cut out most of the button of fat on the underside of lamb kidneys, 
and most of the knob of fat under a veal kidney. A trimmed veal kidney will 
weigh 6 to 8 ounces; a lamb kidney, 144 to 2 ounces. Kidneys should have a 
good, fresh odor and only the faintest suggestion, if any, of an ammonia smell. 
Veal and lamb kidneys should never be washed or soaked in water, as they ab- 
sorb too much of it. 


* ROGNONS DE VEAU EN CASSEROLE 


[Kidneys Cooked in Butter—Mustard and Parsley Sauce] 


If you want to serve this as a main course rather than as a hot hors 
d’oeuvre, potatoes sautéed in butter and braised onions make good accompani- 
ments. Red Burgundy goes especially well with kidneys. 


For 4 to 6 people 





4 Tb butter Heat the butter in the casserole or chafing dish until 
A fireproof casserole or you see the foam begin to subside. Roll the kidneys 


418 


chafing dish which will 
just hold the kidneys eas- 
ily side by side 

veal kidneys, peeled and 
trimmed of fat 

A hot plate and cover 


Crd 


1 Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 

Y cup dry white wine or 
dry vermouth 

1 Tb lemon juice 


1} Tb prepared mustard of 
the strong Dijon type, 
mashed with 3 Tb sof- 
tened butter 

Salt and pepper 


Salt and pepper 
3 Tb minced parsley 


Hot plates 


VARIATIONS 


CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


in the butter, then cook them uncovered for about 10 
minutes; turn them every minute or two. Regulate 
heat so butter is always very hot but is not discoloring. 
A little juice from the kidneys will exude and coagu- 
late in the bottom of the casserole. The kidneys should 
stiffen but not become hard, brown very lightly, and 
be pink at the center when sliced. Remove them to a 
hot plate and tover to keep warm for a few minutes. 


Stir the shallots or onions into the butter in the cas- 


serole and cook for 1 minute. Then add the wine or 
vermouth and lemon juice. Boil, scraping up coagu- 
lated cooking juices, until the liquids have reduced 
to about 4 tablespoons. 


Off heat, swirl the mustard-butter by spoonfuls into 


the casserole, and a sprinkling of salt and pepper. 


Rapidly cut the kidneys into crosswise slices % inch 
thick. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and put them 
and their juices into the casserole. Sprinkle on the 
parsley. Shake and toss them over low heat for a min- 
ute or two to warm them through without allowing 
the sauce to come near the simmer. 


Serve immediately on very hot plates. 


Rognons de Veau Flambés 


[Veal Kidneys Flamed in Brandy—Cream and Mushroom Sauce] 


This extremely good combination is one which is often prepared beside 
your table in a good restaurant. If you are making it at home in a chafing dish, 
have all the sauce ingredients, including the sautéed mushrooms, at hand in 
separate containers. Kidneys cooked this way are best as a separate course, 
served with hot French bread, and a full, red Burgundy wine. ` 


For 4 to 6 people 


KIDNEYS 


3 veal kidneys, peeled and 
trimmed of fat 

4 Tb butter 

A fireproof casserole or 
chafing dish | 


V3 cup cognac 
A hot plate and cover 


2 cup brown sauce, page 
66, or 2 cup canned beef 
bouillon mixed with 1 tsp 
cornstarch 

73 cup Madeira 


I cup whipping cream 

Y% Ib. sliced fresh mush- 
rooms sautéed in butter 
with 1 Tb minced shallots 
or green onions, page 513 

Salt and pepper 


12 Tb prepared mustard of 
the strong Dijon type, 
blended with 2 Tb sof- 
tened butter and 1⁄2 tsp 
Worcestershire 


Salt and pepper 
Hot plates 


419 


Cook the kidneys for about 10 minutes in hot butter 
as described in the master recipe. 


. Pour the cognac over the kidneys. Avert your face and 


ignite the cognac with a lighted match. Shake the cas- 
serole or chafing dish and baste the kidneys for a few 
seconds until the flames have subsided. Remove the 
kidneys to a hot plate, and cover them. 


Pour the brown sauce or bouillon and starch, and the 


wine into the casserole. Boil for a few minutes until 
reduced and thickened. 


Stir in the cream and mushrooms and boil a few 


minutes more. Sauce should be thick enough to coat 
the spoon lightly. Season to taste with salt and pepper. 


Off heat, swirl in the mustard-butter. 


Rapidly cut the kidneys into crosswise slices % inch 


thick. Season with salt and pepper, and put them 
and their juices into the sauce. Shake and toss the 
kidneys over low heat for a moment to reheat them 
without bringing the sauce near the simmer. Serve 
immediately on hot plates. 





Rognons de Veau à la Bordelaise 


[Veal Kidneys in Red Wine Sauce with Marrow] 


Sauce & la bordelaise is a reduction of red wine, brown sauce, shallots, 
and herbs into which poached marrow is folded just before serving. It goes 


420 


CHAPTER SEVEN: MEAT 


very well with kidneys. With sautéed potatoes and braised onions or buttered 
peas, this would make a fine main course served with a red Burgundy wine. 


For 4 to 6 people 


3 veal kidneys, peeled and 
trimmed of fat 

4 Tb butter 

A fireproof casserole or 
chafing dish 

A hot plate and cover 


2 Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 

12 cup good, young, red 
wine such as a Burgundy 
or Macon 

Big pinch each of thyme, 
pepper, and powdered bay 
leaf 


1 cup brown sauce or I 
cup canned beef bouillon, 
mixed with 1 Tb arrow- 
root or cornstarch 

Salt and pepper 


Salt and pepper 

3 cup diced beef marrow 
softened for 2 to 3 minutes 
in hot water, page 19 

2 to 3 Tb fresh parsley 

Hot plates 


Cook the kidneys for about 10 minutes in hot butter 
in a casserole or chafing dish as described in the mas- 
ter recipe, page. 417. Remove them to a hot plate and 
cover them. | 


Stir the shallots or onions into the casserole and cook 
for:1 minute. Pour in the wine, add seasonings, and 


boil until reduced by half. 


Then pour in the brown sauce or bouillon and starch. 
Simmer for 3 to 4 minutes until lightly thickened. 
Correct seasoning. 


Rapidly cut the kidneys into crosswise slices 4 inch 
thick, and season with salt and pepper. Mix them and 
their juices in with the sauce. Fold in the marrow. 
Shake and toss for a moment over low heat to reheat 
the kidneys without bringing the sauce near the sim- 
mer. Sprinkle with parsley and serve on very hot 
plates. 


nA 


CHAPTER EIGHT 


VEGETABLES 


Légumes 


A wHo Has been fortunate enough to eat fresh, home-cooked 
vegetables in France remembers them with pleasure. Returning voyagers speak 
of them with trembling nostalgia: “Those delicious little green beans! They 
even serve them as a separate course. Why I'll never forget the meal I had 

. »” and so forth. Some people are even convinced that it is only in France 
that you can enjoy such experiences because French vegetables are somehow 
different. Fortunately this is not the case. Any fine, fresh vegetable in season 
will taste just as good in America or anywhere else if the French vegetable- 
cooking techniques are used. 

The French are interested in vegetables as food rather than as purely 
nutrient objects valuable for their vitamins and minerals. And it is in the realm 
of the green vegetable that French methods differ most radically from Ameri- 
can. The French objective is to produce a cooked green vegetable so green, 
fresh-tasting, and full of flavor that it really can be served as a separate course. 
They do not hesitate to peel, boil, squeeze, drain, or refresh a vegetable, which 
is often upsetting to those very Americans who weep in delighted remembrance 
of vegetables in France. For many Americans have been taught that by per- 
forming any of these acts one is wickedly “throwing away the best part.” 


BLANCHING 


You will note that before anything else in the way of cooking or flavoring 
takes place, all the green vegetables in this chapter are blanched—dropped into 


422 CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 


a very large kettle of rapidly boiling salted water. This is the great secret of 
French green-vegetable cookery, and also happens to be the same process used 
in America to prepare green vegetables for the freezer. Success is entirely de- 
pendent on having a great quantity of boiling water: 7 to 8 quarts for 2 to 3 
pounds of vegetables. The more water you use in proportion to your vegeta- 
bles, the quicker the water will return to the boil after the vegetables have gone 
in, and the greener, fresher, and more full of flavor they will be. Baking soda 
is never necessary when you cook green vegetables this way. 


REFRESHING 


A second important French technique is that of refreshing. As soon as 
green vegetables have been blanched, and if they are not to be served imme- 
diately or are to be served cold, they are plunged for several minutes into a 
large quantity of cold water. This stops the cooking immediately, sets the color, 
and preserves the texture and flavor. If the vegetables are not refreshed in this 
manner and sit steaming in a saucepan or colander, their collective warmth 
softens and discolors them, and they lose their fresh taste. Following the re- 
freshing technique, then, you can cook all your green vegetables well in ad- 
vance of a party, and have only the final touches left to do at the last minute. 


OVERCOOKING 


A cardinal point in the French technique is: Do not overcook. An equally 
important admonition is: Do not attempt to keep a cooked green vegetable 
warm for more than a very few moments. If you cannot serve it at once, it is 
better to set it aside and then to reheat it. Overcooking and keeping hot ruin the 


color, texture, and taste of green vegetables—as well as most of the nutritive 
qualities. 


SCOPE OF VEGETABLE CHAPTER 


This chapter does not pretend to offer a complete treatise on vegetables. 
The French repertoire is so large that we have felt it best to go into more de- 
tail on a selection than to give tidbits on all. Most of our emphasis is on green 
vegetables. There is a modest but out-of-the-ordinary section on potatoes. Other 


vegetables rate only one or two recipes—but good ones—and some we have not 
mentioned at all. "5 


ARTICHOKES 423 





GREEN VEGETABLES 
ARTICHOKES 


Artichauts 


French or globe artichokes are in season from October to June. April and 
May are the peak months when their prices are most attractive. A fresh, de- 


Cooked Artichoke Filled 
with Hollandaise Sauce 





sirable artichoke is heavy and compact, with fleshy, closely clinging leaves of 
a good, green color all the way to the tips. The stem is also fresh and green. 

As baby artichokes are not generally available in this country, all the 
following recipes are based on the large, ro- to 12-ounce artichoke which is 
about 414 inches high and 4 to 4! inches at its largest diameter. 


SERVING SUGGESTIONS 


Hot or cold boiled artichokes are served as a separate course, either at 
the beginning of the meal or in place of a salad. Most wine authorities agree 
that water should be served with them rather than wine, for wine changes its 
character when drunk with this vegetable. But, if you insist, serve a strong, 
dry, chilled white wine such as a Macon, or a chilled and characterful rosé 


such as a Tavel. 


PREPARATION FOR COOKING 
One at a time, prepare the artichokes as follows: 
Remove the stem by bending it at the base of the artichoke until it snaps 
off, thus detaching with the stem any tough filaments which may have pushed 
up into the heart. 


424 CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 





Sectional View of 
Artichoke 








Break off the small leaves at the base of the artichoke. Trim the base 
with a knife so the artichoke will stand solidly upright. 

Lay the artichoke on its side and slice three quarters of an inch off the 
top of the center cone of leaves. Trim off the points of the rest of the leaves 
with scissors. Wash under cold running water. 





Trim off ends of leaves 
with scissors 





Rub the cut portions of the artichoke with lemon juice. Drop it into a 
basin of cold water containing 1 tablespoon of vinegar per quart of water. The 
acid prevents the artichoke from discoloring. 


* ARTICHAUTS AU NATUREL 
[Whole Boiled Artichokes—Hot or Cold] 
Artichokes should be boiled in a large kettle so that they have plenty of 


room. It is not necessary to tie the leaves in place. Because they must cook a 
comparatively long time, artichokes turn an olive green. Any Frenchman 


ARTICHOKES 425 


would look with disfavor on a bright green boiled artichoke, knowing that 
baking soda had been added to the water. 


6 artichokes prepared for > Drop the prepared artichokes in the boiling salted 
cooking as in the preced- water. To help prevent discoloration, lay over the 
ing directions artichokes a double thickness of cheesecloth; this 

A large kettle containing 7 ` will keep their exposed tops moist. Bring the water 
to 8 quarts of rapidly back to the boil as rapidly as possible and boil slowly, 


boiling water uncovered, for 35 to 45 minutes. The artichokes are 
1/2 tsp salt per quart of done when the leaves pull out easily and the bottoms 
water are tender when pierced with a knife. 


Washed cheesecloth 


A skimmer or slotted spoon Immediately remove them from the kettle with skim- 
A colander mer or spoon and drain them upside down in a 
colander. 


Boiled artichokes may be served hot, warm, or cold. 


HOW TO EAT AN ARTICHOKE 


If you have never eaten an artichoke before, here is how you go about it. 
Pull off a leaf and hold its tip in your fingers. Dip the bottom of the leaf in 
melted butter or one of the sauces suggested farther on. Then scrape off its 
tender flesh between your teeth. When you have gone through all the leaves, 
you will come to the heart, which you eat with a knife and fork after you have 
scraped off and discarded the choke or hairy center growth. 


TO REMOVE THE CHOKE BEFORE SERVING 


It is not necessary to remove the choke, but it makes a nicer presentation 
if you wish to take the time. To do so, gently spread the leaves apart enough 
so you can reach into the interior of the artichoke. Pull out the tender center 
cone of leaves in one piece. Down in the center of the artichoke, at the point 
where you removed the cone of leaves, is the choke or hairy growth which 
covers the top of the heart. Scrape off and remove the choke with a spoon to 
expose the tender flesh of the artichoke heart. Sprinkle salt and pepper over 
the heart. Turn the cone of leaves upside down and set it in the hollow formed 


by the top of the artichoke. 


426 


CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 





Sauces for Hot or Warm Artichokes 


Beurre Fondu, melted butter 

Beurre au Citron, \emon butter sauce, page 98 

Sauce Hollandaise, page 79. If you have removed the choke, you may 
wish to spread the leaves apart enough to expose the heart, then heap 3 or 4 
spoonfuls of the hollandaise into it, and top with a sprig of parsley. 


Sauces for Cold Artichokes 


Vinaigrette, French dressing, page 94 


Sauce Ravigote, vinaigrette with herbs, capers, and onions, page 95 


Sauce Moutarde, mustard sauce with olive oil, lemon juice, and herbs, 


page 95 


Sauce Alsacienne, soft-boiled egg mayonnaise with herbs, page 93 


Mayonnaise, page 86 





x  ARTICHAUTS BRAISÉS À LA PROVENÇALE 
[Artichokes Braised with Wine, Garlic, and Herbs] 


Most of the many recipes for braised artichokes follow the general lines 
of this one. You may, if you wish, add to the casserole a cup of diced tomato 
pulp, or ! cup of diced ham, and, 10 minutes before the end of the cooking, 
4 pound of sautéed mushrooms. Another suggestion with different vegetables 
follows this recipe. Braised artichokes go well with roast or braised meats, or 
they can constitute a first course. As they are rather messy to eat with the fin- 
gers, guests should be furnished with a spoon as well as a knife and fork, so 
the flesh may be scraped off the artichoke leaves. 


For 6 to 8 people 


6 large artichokes 

A large kettle containing 7 
to 8 quarts of rapidly boil- 
ing water 

112 tsp salt per quart of 
water 


Prepare the artichokes for cooking as directed at the 
beginning of this section, but cut off the leaves so that 
the artichokes are only about 144 inches long. Then 
slice the artichokes into lengthwise quarters and cut 
out the chokes. Drop the quarters in boiling water and 
boil for 10 minutes only. Drain. 


$ 


Preheat oven to 325 degrees. 


ARTICHOKES 


1 cup (4 ounces) diced on- 
ions 

6 Tb olive oil 

A 10- to 11-inch covered 
fireproof casserole large 
enough to hold the arti- 
chokes in one layer 

2 large cloves minced garlic 

Salt and pepper 


% cup wine vinegar 

2 cup dry white wine or 
dry white vermouth 

172 cups stock, canned beef 
bouillon, or water 

An herb bouquet: 4 parsley 
sprigs, 14 bay leaf, and 1⁄4 
tsp thyme tied in cheese- 
cloth 


A round of waxed paper 


2 to 3 Tb minced parsley 


427 


Cook the onions slowly in olive oil in the casserole for 
5 minutes without letting the onions color. Stir in the 
garlic. Arrange the artichoke quarters in the casserole. 
Baste with the olive oil and onions. Sprinkle on salt 
and pepper. Cover casserole and cook slowly over low 
heat for 10 minutes, not allowing artichokes to brown. 


Pour in the vinegar and wine. Raise heat and boil un- 
til liquid is reduced by half. Then pour in the stock, 
bouillon, or water. Add the herb bouquet. Bring 
to the simmer, then lay the waxed paper over the 
artichokes. Cover casserole and place it in the middle 
level of the preheated oven. Casserole should simmer 
slowly for 114 to 1% hours, or until liquid has almost 
entirely evaporated. 

(*) If not to be served immediately, set casserole 
aside, its cover askew. Reheat when needed. 


Discard herb bouquet. Serve from casserole or on a 
warm serving dish. (The artichokes may be sur- 
rounded with baked tomatoes and sautéed potatoes.) 
Sprinkle with parsley before bringing to the table. 





VARIATION 


Artichauts Printaniers 


[Artichokes Braised with Carrots, Onions, Turnips, and Mushrooms | 


Except for the addition of other vegetables, this recipe is the same as the 
master recipe. You may wish to use butter instead of olive oil, cut down on 


the garlic, and omit all or part of the vinegar, increasing the wine accordingly. 


Ingredients for the preced- 
ing braised artichokes, in- 
cluding diced onions, oil 
(or butter), wine, stock, 
and seasonings 


Following the preceding recipe, quarter and blanch 
the artichokes, and cook the diced onions in the olive 
oil (or butter). Then add the artichokes and place 
the whole onions and the other vegetables around the 
edge of the casserole. Baste with the diced onions and 


428 CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 


12 small white onions, about oil (or butter), and season with salt and pepper. Pro- 
1 inch in diameter, peeled ceed with the recipe. 

3 or 4 carrots, peeled, quar- 
tered and cut into 14-inch 
lengths 

3 or 4 white turnips, peeled 
and quartered 

‘ 

12 to 18 mushroom caps About ro minutes before the end of the cooking, add 
lightly sautéed in olive oil the mushroom caps. Finish the sauce and serve the 
or butter casserole as in the preceding recipe. 





ARTICHOKE HEARTS OR BOTTOMS 
Fonds d’ Artichauts 


Although there is a tendency to lump artichoke hearts and bottoms 
together, they are technically different. The heart is the tender central part of 
baby artichokes; it includes the inner cone of leaves, the choke, and the bottom. 
The bottom is just the meaty bottom part, usually of larger artichokes, minus 
leaves and choke. Unless you live near a market catering to the baby artichoke 
desires of a foreign clientele, you will probably only see artichoke hearts in a 
can, a jar, or a frozen package. Bottoms, however, you can prepare yourself, 
and they are even more of a delicacy in this country, owing to the price’ of 
artichokes, than they are in France. Sliced, and braised in butter, they make a 
delicious vegetable garnish; quartered and served in a vinaigrette sauce, they 
are a delightful first course. Or you may top the whole bottom with poached 
eggs and a sauce for an elegant hot first course, or fill it with shellfish mayon- 
naise for a cold luncheon dish. Whatever your plans for them, you must first 
trim the leaves off your artichokes to expose the bottoms, and then poach them 
in a blanc to preserve their whiteness. 


HOW TO PREPARE ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS 


Choose the largest artichokes you can find. Ideally they should be 4% 
inches in diameter, which will do for one serving. Otherwise, allow two per 
person. Prepare them as illustrated on the opposite page. 


ARTICHOKES 429 


































Break the stem off close to the 
base of the artichoke. Holding 
the artichoke bottom up, bend a 
lower leaf back on itself until it 
snaps. Then pull it off. Continue 
all around. the artichoke until 
you have gone beyond the curve 
of the artichoke bottom, where 
the cone of leaves folds inward. 


Cut off remaining cone of leaves 
close above top of artichoke. 
bottom. Immediately rub cut parts 
with lemon juice to prevent 
discoloration. 





Trim bottom part, rotating it 
slowly with your left hand against 
the blade of a knife held firmly 
in your right hand. Remove all 
bits of green to expose the whitish 
tender surface. Frequently rub 
cut portions with lemon juice. 
Drop each as it is finished into a 
bowl of acidulated water (2 Tb 
lemon juice per quart of water). 


430 CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 





Trimmed bottom ready to 
cook; choke is removed 





after cooking 





FONDS D’ARTICHAUTS A BLANC 
[Cooked Artichoke Bottoms—Preliminary Cooking] 


A blanc is a solution of salted water with lemon juice and flour. It is used 
for the preliminary cooking of any food which discolors easily, such as arti- 
choke bottoms, salsify, calf’s head. Flour and lemon juice blanch the food and 
keep its whiteness. 

Never cook artichoke bottoms in anything but enamel, pyrex, stainless 
steel, or earthenware. Aluminum or iron pans will give them a grayish color. 

For 6 to 8 large artichoke bottoms 


4 cup flour Put the flour in the saucepan and beat in a bit of cold 


An enameled saucepan water to make a smooth paste. Then beat in the rest 
A wire whip of the water, the lemon juice, and the salt. Bring to 
1 quart cold water the boil and simmer 5 minutes. 


2 Tb lemon juice 
122 tsp salt 


Add the artichokes. Bring liquid again to the boil, then simmer 30 to 40 minutes or so 
until tender when pierced with a knife. Be sure they are completely covered with 
liquid at all times. Add more water if necessary. 


Allow them to cool in their liquid. If they are to be refrigerated for a day or two, 
film the top of the liquid with oil. Just before using, remove from the liquid and 
wash under cold water. Delicately scoop out the choke with a spoon, and trim off 
the remaining leaf ends. 


Cooked Artichoke Bottom, 
Choke Removed 








ARTICHOKES 431 


* FONDS D’ARTICHAUTS AU BEURRE 
{Buttered Artichoke Bottoms, Whole | 


This is the method for heating cooked artichoke bottoms which are to be 
filled with hot vegetables, poached eggs, béarnaise sauce, truffles, or whatever 
is called for. 


Preheat oven to 325 degrees. 


6 cooked artichoke bottoms Season the artichokes with salt and pepper. Heat the 


(see preceding recipe) butter in the casserole until it is bubbling. Remove 
Salt and white pepper from heat. Baste each artichoke bottom with butter as 
4 Tb butter you place it upside down (to keep center moist) in the 


A covered fireproof casse- casserole. Lay the buttered paper over them. Reheat 
role (enameled, pyrex, or the casserole, then place it in the middle level of the 
stainless steel) just large preheated oven for about 20 minutes, or until they 
enough to hold the arti- are well heated through. Do not overcook. 
chokes in one layer 

A round of buttered waxed 


paper 


The artichokes are now ready to receive any filling 
your recipe directs. 





VARIATIONS 
Quartiers de Fonds d’Artichauts au Beurre 
[Buttered Artichoke Bottoms, Quartered | 


This is basically the same as the preceding recipe, except that the arti- 
choke bottoms are cut into quarters, and shallots or onions are included with 
the butter. Use quartered artichokes as a vegetable garnish or combine them 
with other vegetables such as braised carrots and onions, or sautéed mushrooms. 
They go well with veal, chicken, and egg dishes. 


6 cooked artichoke bottoms, Cut the artichoke bottoms in quarters, and preheat 
page 430 oven to 325 degrees. 


432 


4 Tb butter 

A 6-cup, enameled casserole 

z Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 

Salt and pepper 

A round of waxed paper, 
buttered 

2 Tb minced parsley 


CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 


Melt the butter in the casserole. Stir in the shallots or 


onions, then fold in the artichokes. Season with salt 
and pepper, and lay over them the round of buttered 
paper. Cover the casserole and bake in middle level 
of preheated oven for about 20 minutes, or until the 
vegetables are well steeped in the butter. Do not over- 
cook. Sprinkle with parsley before serving. 

(*) May be cooked in advance. 





Fonds d’ Artichauts Mirepoix 
[Buttered Artichoke Bottoms with Diced Vegetables] 


This is particularly good if the artichoke bottoms are to be served as a sepa- 


rate vegetable. 


3 Tb each: finely diced car- 
rots, onions, and celery 

2 Tb finely diced, lean, 
boiled ham 

Ingredients for the preced- 
ing buttered artichoke 
bottoms 


Cook the carrots, onions, celery, and ham for 8 to 10 


minutes in the butter called for in the preceding 
recipe. When the vegetables are tender but not 
browned, add the rest of the ingredients listed, and 
proceed with the recipe. i 


Fonds d’ Artichauts à la Crème 


[Creamed Artichoke Bottoms] 


Serve creamed artichoke bottoms with roast veal or chicken, or sautéed 
brains or sweetbreads. They also go with omelettes. 


Ingredients for 6 quartered 
artichoke bottoms cooked 
ai in either of the two pre- 
ceding variations 

172 cups whipping cream 

Salt and pepper 

1 tsp lemon juice, more if 
needed 

A hot vegetable dish 

2 Tb minced parsley 


While the artichoke bottoms are cooking as directed in 
either of the two preceding recipes, boil the cream in 
a small saucepan until it has reduced by half. Season 
to taste with salt, pepper, and lemon juice. When the 
artichokes are done, fold the hot cream into them. 
Simmer for a moment on top of the stove to blend 
flavors. Turn into a hot vegetable dish and sprinkle 
with parsley. 


a 


ARTICHOKES 433 


Fonds d’Artichauts Mornay 


[Artichoke Bottoms Gratinéed with Cheese Sauce] 


Serve gratinéed artichoke bottoms with roast chicken or veal, sautéed 
chicken, veal scallops, or liver. Or you could use them as a hot first course 
or luncheon dish; in this case, you might fold into the artichoke bottoms 
before saucing them 1 cup of sautéed mushrooms, diced boiled ham, or diced 


cooked chicken. 


Ingredients for 6 buttered 
artichoke bottoms, quar- 
tered, page 431 

1% cups sauce mornay 
(béchamel with cheese), 
page 61 

A lightly buttered baking 
dish about 8 inches in di- 
ameter and 2 inches deep 

3 Tb grated Swiss cheese 

x Tb butter 


While the artichoke bottoms are cooking, make the 
sauce mornay. When they are done, spread one third 
of the sauce in the dish and arrange the artichokes 
over it. Pour on the rest of the sauce, sprinkle on the 
cheese, and dot with butter. 


About 30 minutes before serving, place in upper third 
of a preheated, 375-degree oven to heat through thor- 
oughly and brown the top of the sauce lightly. Serve 
as soon as possible. 





FONDS D’ARTICHAUTS AU GRATIN 
[Stuffed Artichoke Bottoms au Gratin] 


Stuffed artichoke bottoms make an attractive hot first course or luncheon 


dish. 
For 6 people 


6 large artichoke bottoms 
cooked in a blanc, page 
430 

A buttered baking dish 

1 to 122 cups of one of the 
creamed fillings on pages 
201 to 203, such as ham, 





Arrange the cooked artichoke bottoms in the baking 
dish. Place several spoonsful of the filling in each, 
heaping it into a slight dome. Sprinkle with cheese 
and dot with butter. About 20 minutes before serving, 
bake in upper third of a preheated 375-degree oven 
until thoroughly warmed through and the cheese has 
browned lightly. 


434 


chicken, mushrooms or 
shellfish 
13 cup grated Swiss cheese 
114 Tb butter 


CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 


FROZEN ARTICHOKE HEARTS 


These usually come in 10-ounce packages and are baby, halved hearts 
with the tender center leaves still attached. We find it to be more satisfactory 
if you allow the vegetables to thaw enough so they can be detached from each 


other. They will then cook more evenly. 


For 6 servings 


1 cup chicken stock, canned 
chicken broth, half mush- 
room broth and half wa- 
ter, or water only 

2 Tb minced shallots or 
green onions (or 2 Tb 
each: finely diced onions, 
celery, carrots, and ham, 
previously cooked until 
tender in the butter) 

2 Tb butter 

14 tsp salt 

An 8-inch enameled sauce- 
pan or skillet 

2 packages frozen artichoke 
hearts, partially thawed 
(10 ounces each) 


Bring the liquid, shallots or onions, butter, and salt 
to the boil in an enameled saucepan. Add the partially 
thawed artichoke hearts. Cover saucepan and bring 
to the boil. Boil slowly for 7 to 10 minutes, or until 
artichoke hearts are tender. Uncover, raise heat, and 
boil off any remaining liquid. 


Serve them sprinkled with parsley, or in the cream 


sauce or cheese sauce described in the previous reci- 
pes. Or you may combine them with other cooked 
vegetables such as sautéed mushrooms or glazed car- 
rots and onions. 





ASPARAGUS 
Asperges 


Cooked green asparagus should be tender yet not limp, and a fresh, beat- ` 
tiful green. Fresh white asparagus, so prevalent in Europe, is rarely seen in 


ASPARAGUS 435 


this country, but it is prepared and cooked in the same way as green asparagus. 
The French method of cooking asparagus is to peel it, tie it in bundles, plunge 
it into a very large kettle of rapidly boiling, salted water, boil it slowly until it 
is just tender; and to drain it immediately. Peeled asparagus cooks more quickly 
than unpeeled asparagus, retains its color and texture, and can be eaten usually 
all the way down to the butt. We have tested every asparagus cooking method 
we have heard of—peeled, unpeeled, boiled butts, steamed tips—and can say 
categorically that the freshest, greenest, and most appetizing asparagus is 
cooked by the French method. 


SERVING SUGGESTIONS 


Whole boiled asparagus, hot or cold, is served as a separate vegetable 
course either at the beginning of the meal, or in place of a salad. With hot 
asparagus serve a not too dry, chilled white wine such as a Graves, Barsac, 
Pouilly-Fumé, or Vouvray. No wine should accompany cold asparagus with a 
vinegar-based sauce, as the vinegar will spoil the taste of the wine. 


CHOOSING ASPARAGUS 


Select firm, crisp, stalks, moist at the cut end, and with tips which are 
compact and closed. Fat spears are just as tender as thin spears; as long as the 
asparagus must be peeled, the fat ones are easier to handle and less wasteful. 
Loose asparagus is preferable to asparagus in bundles, since you may examine 
each spear and choose ones all of a size. Plan on 6 to 10 fat spears per person, 
depending on your menu. 


PREPARATION FOR COOKING 


You will find that a vegetable peeler is not useful for this operation 
because it does not go deep enough. Asparagus is peeled not just to remove the 
skin, but to shave off enough of the tough outer flesh (particularly around the 
lower part of the spear) to make just about the whole cooked spear edible. 
Peeling is therefore economical. 

Hold an asparagus spear with its butt end up. Peel off the outer skin 
with a sharp, small knife, going as deep as 116 of an inch at the butt in order 
to expose the tender, moist flesh. Gradually make the cut shallower until you 
come up to the tender green portion near the up. Shave off any scales which 
cling to the spear below the tip. Wash the peeled asparagus spears in a large 
basin of cold water. Drain. 

Line up the tips evenly and tie the asparagus in bundles about 3/4 inches 


436 CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 





Peel asparagus with a 


small, sharp knife 





in diameter, one string near the tip, one near the butt. Leave one spear loose 
to be used as a cooking test later. Cut a bit off the butts if necessary, to make 
the spears all the same length. 


Make two ties to secure 


each bundle 





If not cooked immediately, set bunches upright in ! inches of cold water. 
Cover the asparagus with a plastic bag and refrigerate. 


è? 


x ASPERGES AU NATUREL 
[Boiled Asparagus—Hot or Cold] we 


A large kettle or oval casse- Kettle must be wide enough to hold the asparagus 


ASPARAGUS 437 


role containing 7 to 8 bunches horizontally. Lay the asparagus bundles in 
quarts rapidly boiling wa- the rapidly boiling salted water. Bring water to boil 
ter (for 4 to 6 bundles again as quickly as possible. When boil is reached, 
of prepared asparagus reduce heat and boil slowly, uncovered, for 12 to 15 
spears) a minutes. The asparagus is done when a knife pierces 
1¥2 tsp salt per quart of wa- the butt-end easily. The spears should bend a little, 
ter . but should not be limp and droopy. Eat the loose 
spear as a test for doneness. 


A serving platter covered As soon as the asparagus is tender, lift it out of the 
with a folded white nap- water bundle by bundle with 2 forks, one slipped un- 
kin (to absorb the aspara- der each round of string. Hold up for a few seconds 
gus liquid) to drain, then place the bundle carefully on the nap- 

kin. Cut and remove the strings. Proceed quickly to 
the next bundle. 


If the asparagus is not to be served immediately, it 
will keep warm for 20 to 30 minutes covered with a 
napkin. Set the platter on top of the kettle of hot 
asparagus cooking water. The asparagus will lose a 
bit of its texture as it waits because it will continue to 
exude moisture, but it will retain its taste and color. 





Sauces to Serve with Hot Asparagus 


Allow 3 to 4 tablespoons of sauce per person. 

Sauce Hollandaise, page 79. You may beat 3 or 4 tablespoons of puréed 
cooked asparagus spears into the hollandaise if you wish. 

Sauce Mousseline, hollandaise with cream, page 83 

Sauce Maltaise, hollandaise with orange flavoring, delicious with aspara- 


gus, and makes a nice change, page 83 
Sauce Crème, béchamel with cream and lemon juice, page 59 


Beurre au Citron, lemon butter sauce, page 98 


COLD ASPARAGUS 


To serve cold asparagus, spread the cooked spears in one layer on a double 
thickness of clean toweling so the asparagus will cool rapidly. When thoroughly 


cold, arrange on a serving dish. 


438 CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 


Sauces to Serve with Cold Asparagus 


Allow 2 to 4 tablespoons of sauce per person. 

Sauce Vinaigrette, French dressing, with.herbs and mustard, page 94 

Sauce Vinaigrette à la Crème, vinaigrette with cream and herbs, page 95 

Sauce Ravigote, vinaigrette with herbs, shallots, and capers, page 95 

Sauce Moutarde, mustard sauce with herbs, page 95 

Sauce Alsacienne, soft-boiled egg mayonnaise with herbs, page 93 

Mayonnaise, page 86. 2 to 3 tablespoons of green herbs, or 4 to 6 table- 
spoons of puréed cooked asparagus spears may be stirred into the mayonnaise 
if you wish. 


ASPARAGUS TIPS 
Pointes d’ Asperges 


Asparagus tips are the part of the spear from the tip as far down as the 
asparagus is green and still tender. Asparagus tips are served as a separate 
vegetable or as part of a vegetable garnish and go well with chicken breasts, 
veal scallops, brains, sweetbreads, scrambled eggs, and omelettes. They are also 
used in a sauce to fill tarts, tartlets, or artichoke hearts, or can be served as a 
cold vegetable or as part of a vegetable salad. 


PREPARATION FOR COOKING 


Choose thin asparagus spears 1⁄4 to 3% of an inch in diameter. Hold each 
by its butt end and, moving your fingers up toward the tip, bend the spear 
“until it snaps in two, usually at about the halfway point. (Set the butt ends 
aside; they may be peeled and cooked, and are good for soups or purées.) 
Scrape off all the scales below the tip and wash the asparagus. Cut the tips off 
so each is 114 inches long and tie in bundles about 2 inches in diameter. Dice 
the remaining stalks. 





* POINTES D’ASPERGES AU BEURRE 
[Buttered Asparagus Tips] 


For 4 to 6 people as a vegetable garnish 


ASPARAGUS 


Blanching 


2 lbs. asparagus tips pre- 
pared as directed in pre- 
ceding paragraph 

6 quarts rapidly boiling wa- 
ter 


3 Tb salt 


Braising in butter 


A covered baking dish or 
fireproof baking and serv- 
ing dish 

1 Tb softened butter 

Salt and pepper 

4 Tb melted butter 

A round of waxed paper 


VARIATION: SAUCES 


439 


Drop the diced asparagus stalks in the boiling salted 


water and boil 5 minutes. Then add the asparagus 
bundles and boil slowly for 5 to 8 minutes more, or 
until just tender. Remove bundles carefully and drain; 


‘ drain the diced stalks. 


(*) If you are cooking the asparagus in advance or 
wish to serve it cold, plunge for a minute or two in 
cold water to stop the cooking and set the color. 
Drain. 


Preheat oven to 325 degrees. 


Smear the baking dish with softened butter. Arrange 
the diced asparagus stalks in the bottom; season with 
salt, pepper, and part of the melted butter. Remove 
strings and arrange the asparagus tips over the stalks. 
Season with salt, pepper, and butter, and lay the 
waxed paper on top. Heat for a moment on top of 
the stove; cover the casserole and place in middle level 
of oven for 10 to 15 minutes or until asparagus is hot 
through. Serve immediately. 


Sauces for hot and cold asparagus are listed on pages 437-8. If you are serv- 


ing a hot sauce, you may wish only to blanch the asparagus tips and omit the 


braising-in-butter step in the preceding recipe. 


FROZEN ASPARAGUS 


Frozen asparagus will always be limp however you cook it; the following 


method is as good as any we have found. Allow the asparagus to thaw partially 
before cooking so the spears can be separated and will cook more evenly. If 
you are doing more than two boxes at a time, use two wide saucepans in order 
that the cooking water will boil away by the time the asparagus is done. 


440 


For each ro-ounce box of 
frozen asparagus, partially 
thawed: 

Y cup water 

14 tsp salt 

1 Tb butter 

A wide enameled saucepan 
or skillet 

A cover 

Pinch of pepper 

More salt, if needed 

A hot vegetable dish 

Melted butter or one of the 
sauces listed nn page 437 


CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 


Bring the water, salt, and butter to the boil in the 


saucepan or skillet. Add the asparagus, cover, and boil 
slowly for 5 to 8 minutes or until asparagus is tender. 
Remove cover, raise heat, and quickly boil off any 
remaining liquid: Correct seasoning. Arrange in vege- 
table dish, pour on sauce or pass it separately, and 
serve as soon as possible. 

AN 





TIMBALE D’ASPERGES 


| Asparagus Mold] 


This asparagus custard is served unmolded as a first course or luncheon 


dish, or may be served with roast or sautéed veal or chicken. The custard mix- 
ture may be prepared hours in advance of cooking, and the cooked mold may 
be kept warm for a considerable time or reheated. You can mold the custard 
in individual cups if you wish. 

NOTE: Chopped, cooked Brussels sprouts, broccoli, cauliflower, spinach, or 
puréed green peas may be cooked in the same way; substitute 214 to 3 cups of 
any of these vegetables for the asparagus. 

For 6 people 


Fiavorless salad oil 

A 6-cup soufflé mold 

4 cup stale, white bread 
crumbs 


Preheat oven to 325 degrees. Oil the mold. Roll bread 
crumbs in it to cover the entire inner surface. Knock 
out excess crumbs. 


2 cup finely minced onions 
1 Tb butter 


Cook the onions slowly in butter for about 10 min- 
utes in a covered saucepan, not allowing them to 
color. 


Scrape the onions into the mixing bowl. Stir in the 
seasonings, cheese, and bread crumbs. Beat in the 


A 3-quart mixing bowl 
Big pinch of white pepper 


ASPARAGUS 


1⁄4 tsp salt 

Pinch of nutmeg 

12 cup grated Swiss cheese 

73 cup stale, white bread 
crumbs 

5 eggs 

1 cup milk brought to the 
boil with 4 Tb butter 


3 lbs. boiled, fresh aspara- 
gus, or 3 cups cooked fro- 
zen asparagus, or canned 
asparagus 

Salt and pepper 


A pan of boiling water large 
enough to hold the mold 
easily 


A warm serving platter 


441 


eggs. In a thin stream of droplets, beat in the hot milk 
and butter. 


Cut the tender portion of the asparagus spears into 
-inch pieces. Fold the asparagus into the custard 
mixture. Correct seasoning. 


(*) May be prepared ahead to this point. 


Turn the custard into the prepared mold and set mold 
in a pan of boiling water. Place in lower third of pre- 
heated oven and bake for 35 to 40 minutes, regulating 
heat so water remains just below the simmer. Custard 
is done when a knife, plunged through the center, 
comes out clean. 


Remove mold from water and allow to settle for 5 
minutes. Run a knife around the edge of the custard 
and reverse on a warm serving platter. Surround with 
one of the sauces listed, and serve. 

(*) If custard is not served immediately, do not un- 
mold it, but leave in its pan of hot water, reheating 
the water from time to time, if necessary. Unmold 
when you are ready to serve. 


Sauces for Asparagus Mold 


Prepare 214 to 3 cups of one of the following: 

Sauce Chivry, béchamel with cream and green herbs, page 62 
Sauce Mornay, béchamel with cheese, page 61 

Sauce Mousseline, hollandaise with cream, page 83 


442 CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 





GREEN BEANS 
Haricots Verts 


Green beans, snap beans, string beans, or whatever you wish to call them, 
are of many varieties: some are flat, others are round, still others are a mottled 
green rather than a uniform color. Most of those on the market today are string- 
less. Whichever you buy, look for beans which are clean, fresh-looking, firm, 
and which snap crisply and contain immature seeds. If possible, select beans 
all of the same circumference so they will cook evenly. The smaller around 
they are, the more they will approach tiny French beans; a diameter of not 
more than % inch is most desirable. 

Fresh beans take time to prepare for cooking, but have so much more 
flavor than frozen beans that they are well worth the trouble. The cooking 
itself is easy; however, beans demand attention if they are to be fresh-tasting, 
full of flavor, and green. Although their preliminary blanching may be taken 
care of hours in advance, the final touches should be done only at the last min- 
ute. It is fatal to their color, texture, and taste if they are overcooked, or if they 
are allowed to sit around over heat for more than a few minutes after they are 
ready to be eaten. 


SERVING SUGGESTIONS 


Green beans will go with just about any meat dish, or may constitute a 
separate vegetable course. 


AMOUNT TO BUY 


One pound of beans will serve 2 or 3 people depending on your menu. 


PREPARATION FOR COOKING 


Snap the tip of one end of a bean with your fingers and draw it down 
the length of one side of the bean to remove any possible string. Do the same 
thing with the other end, pulling it down the other side of the bean. 

Beans of not much more than ! inch in diameter are cooked whole, and 
retain their maximum flavor. If they are large in circumference, you may slice 
them on the bias to make several 24-inch lengths per bean; this or machine 
slicing is usually called Frenched beans though it is rarely done in France as 
it is seldom necessary. Sliced beans never have the flavor of whole beans. > 

Wash the beans rapidly in very hot water the moment before cooking. 


GREEN BEANS 443 


HARICOTS VERTS BLANCHIS | 
[Blanched Green Beans—Preliminary Cooking] 


Whatever recipe you choose for your beans, always give them a prelimi- 
nary blanching in a very large kettle of rapidly boiling salted water. Depending 
on what you plan to do to them later, boil them either until tender or until 
almost tender, and drain immediately. This essential step in the French art of 
bean cookery always produces a fine, fresh, green bean of perfect texture and 
flavor. 

For 6 to 8 people 


3 lbs. green beans, trimmed A handful at a time, drop the beans into the rapidly 
and washed boiling salted water. Bring the water back to the boil 
A large kettle containing at as quickly as possible, and boil the beans slowly, un- 
least 7 to 8 quarts of rap- covered, for 10 to 15 minutes; test the beans frequently 


idly boiling water after 8 minutes by eating one. A well cooked bean 

142 tsp salt per quart of wa- should be tender, but still retain the slightest sugges- 

ter tion of crunchiness. Drain the beans as soon as they 
are done. 





For Immediate Serving 


Turn the beans into a large, heavy-bottomed saucepan and toss them 
gently over moderately high heat by flipping the pan, not by stirring them. 
This will evaporate their moisture in 2 to 3 minutes. Then proceed with one 
of the following recipes. 


For Later Serving or to Serve Cold 


Run cold water over the beans for 3 to 4 minutes. This will stop the cook- 
ing immediately and the beans will retain color, taste, and texture. Drain, 
spread them out on a clean towel, and pat dry. The beans may then be set 
aside in a colander, or put in a covered bowl in the refrigerator where they will 
keep perfectly for 24 hours. 

To Reheat: Depending on your recipe, either drop the beans in a large 
kettle of rapidly boiling, salted water, bring quickly again to the boil, then 
drain immediately. Or toss the beans in a tablespoon or two of hot butter or 
oil, season them, cover the pan, and let them warm thoroughly for 3 to 4 min- 
utes over moderate heat. Then proceed with your recipe. 


444 


CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 





TWO RECIPES FOR BUTTERED GREEN BEANS 


Buttered green beans go with almost anything, and particularly roast or 
broiled lamb, beef, chicken, veal, and liver. They may also be served as a sepa- 


rate course. 


Haricots Verts à l’ Anglaise 


[Buttered Green Beans I] 


For 6 to 8 people 


3 lbs. hot, blanched green 
beans (preceding recipe) 

A wide, heavy-bottomed, 
enameled saucepan or 
skillet 

Salt and pepper 

A hot serving dish 

4 to 8 Tb butter, cut into 
pieces or formed into 
shells 


Toss the hot beans in the saucepan or skillet over 
moderately high heat to evaporate their moisture. Toss 
briefly again with salt and pepper to taste. Turn them 
into the serving dish, distribute the butter over them, 
and serve at once. 


Haricots Verts à la Maitre d'Hôtel 


[Buttered Green Beans II -with Lemon Juice and Parsley | 


For 6 to 8 people 


3 lbs. hot, blanched green 
beans (preceding master 
recipe) 

A wide, heavy-bottomed, 
enameled saucepan or 
skillet 

Salt and pepper 

6 to 8 Tb softened butter 
cut into 4 pieces 

2 to 3 tsp lemon juice 

A hot vegetable dish 

3 Tb minced parsley 


Toss the hot beans in the saucepan or skillet over 
moderately high heat to evaporate their moisture. 
Toss briefly again with salt, pepper and a piece of 
butter. Add the rest of the butter gradually while 
tossing the beans; alternate with drops of lemon juice. 
Taste for seasoning. Turn into the vegetable dish, 
sprinkle with parsley, and serve immediately. 


GREEN BEANS 


445 





TWO RECIPES FOR GREEN BEANS IN CREAM 


Serve creamed green beans with plain roast lamb, veal, or chicken, broiled 
or sautéed chicken, lamb chops, sautéed liver, or veal chops or scallops. 


Haricots Verts a la Créme 


[Creamed Green Beans I] 


For 6 to 8 people 


3 lbs. green beans, trimmed 
and washed 

A wide, heavy-bottomed, 
enameled saucepan or 
skillet 

Salt and pepper to taste 

3 Tb softened butter 

2 cups whipping cream 

A lid for the pan 


A hot vegetable dish 
3 Tb fresh minced savory, 
tarragon, or parsley 


Blanch the beans in 7 to 8 quarts of rapidly boiling 
salted water as described on page 443, but drain them 
3 to 4 minutes before they are tender. Toss the beans 
in the pan over moderately high heat to evaporate 
their moisture. Then toss with the salt, pepper, and 
butter. Pour in the cream, cover the pan, and boil 
slowly for 5 minutes or so, until beans are tender and 
cream has reduced by half. Correct seasoning. 





Turn into hot vegetable dish, sprinkle with herbs, 
and serve at once. 


Haricots Verts, Sauce Créme 
[Creamed Green Beans II] 


This is less rich than the pure cream treatment in the preceding recipe. 


For 6 to 8 people 


3 lbs. green beans, trimmed 
and washed 

A wide, heavy-bottomed, 
enameled saucepan or 


skillet 


Salt and pepper to taste 

3 Tb softened butter 

3 Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 


A lid for the pan 


Blanch the beans in 7 to 8 quarts of boiling salted wa- 


ter as described on page 443, but drain them 3 to 4 
minutes before they are tender. Toss the beans in the 
pan over moderately high heat to evaporate their 
moisture. 


Then toss them with the seasonings, butter, and 
minced shallots or onions. Cover the pan and let them 
cook slowly for 3 to 4 minutes. 


446 


3 cups boiling sauce crème 
(béchamel with cream) 
page 59 

Salt and pepper 

A hot vegetable dish 

3 Tb fresh minced savory, 
tarragon, or parsley 


14 to r lb. sliced mushrooms 
sautéed in butter 


CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 


Delicately fold the hot sauce into the beans. Cover 


pan and simmer slowly again for 3 to 4 minutes, or 
until beans are tender. Correct seasoning. Turn into 
a hot vegetable. dish, sprinkle with herbs, and serve 
at once. i j 


A GOOD ADDITION 


Fold the sautéed mushrooms into the beans with the 
sauce. 


HARICOTS VERTS GRATINÉS, À LA MORNAY 


[Green Beans Gratinéed with Cheese Sauce] 


This is a good method for ahead-of-time preparation. Serve with the same 
meats suggested in the preceding recipes for green beans in cream. 


For 6 to 8 people 


3 lbs. green beans, trimmed 
and washed 


3 cups sauce mornay (bé- 
chamel with cheese), page 
61 

A lightly buttered baking 
dish 

Salt and pepper to taste 

Ys cup grated Swiss cheese 

1 Tb butter cut into pea- 
sized dots 


Blanch the beans as described on page 443 until they 


are just tender. Drain, refresh in cold water, and dry 
in a towel. 


Spread a third of the sauce in the baking dish. Season 
the beans and arrange them over the sauce. Pour on 
the rest of the sauce. Sprinkle with cheese, dot with 
butter, and set aside uncovered. 


Half an hour before serving time, bake in upper third 
of a preheated 375-degree oven until beans are well 
heated through and the sauce has browned lightly on 
top. 


GREEN BEANS 


447 


U 


HARICOTS VERTS À LA PROVENÇALE 


[Green Beans with Tomatoes, Garlic, and Herbs] 


These full-flavored beans go wonderfully with roast lamb or beef, steaks, 
chops, or broiled chicken. Tossed with diced, sautéed ham, they can serve as 
a main-course luncheon or supper dish. Frozen beans react nicely to this treat- 


ment. 
For 6 to 8 servings 


2 cups thinly sliced onions 

2 cup olive oil 

An enameled saucepan or 
skillet large enough to 
hold the beans 


4 to 6 large, firm, ripe, red 
tomatoes peeled, seeded, 
juiced, and chopped, page 
505 

2 to 4 cloves mashed garlic 

A medium herb bouquet 
with cloves: 4 parsley 
sprigs, /% bay leaf, 12 tsp 
thyme, and 2 cloves tied 
in cheesecloth 

34 cup liquid: juice from the 
tomatoes plus water or 
water only 

Salt and pepper to taste 


3 lbs. green beans 
OR 3 boxes partially de- 
frosted cut green beans 
added directly to the 
cooked tomato mixture 

Salt and pepper 

4 cup chopped parsley, or 
a mixture of green herbs 
such as basil, savory, and 
tarragon plus parsley 


Cook the onions slowly in the olive oil until they are 
tender and translucent but not browned, about 10 
minutes. 


Add the ingredients at the left, and simmer for 30 
minutes. Then remove the herb bouquet. 


While the tomatoes are cooking, blanch the beans in 
7 to 8 quarts of boiling salted water as described on 
page 443, but drain them 3 to 4 minutes before they 
are tender. Toss them in the pan with the onions and 
tomatoes. Cover and simmer slowly for 8 to 10 min- 
utes, tossing occasionally, until they are tender. Most 
of the liquid should have evaporated by this time; if 
not, uncover, raise heat, and boil it off rapidly, tossing 
the beans. Correct seasoning, toss in the herbs, and 
serve. 


448 


CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 





WAX OR YELLOW POD BEANS 


Haricots Mange-tout — Haricots Beurre 


Wax beans are trimmed and blanched in the same manner as green beans, 


and may be substituted for green beans in any of the preceding recipes. Here 


is a special recipe for large wax beans. 





HARICOTS MANGE-TOUT A L’ETUVEE 


[Wax Beans Braised with Onions, Lettuce, and Cream] 


For 6 to 8 people 


3 lbs. large but tender wax 
beans 


2 Tb softened butter 

A covered fireproof casse- 
role or baking dish 

1¥2 cups diced onions 

I tsp salt 

Big pinch of pepper 

Iı medium herb bouquet: 4 
parsley sprigs, 2 bay leaf, 
and 14 tsp thyme tied in 
cheesecloth 

2 heads of Boston lettuce, 
shredded 

8 Tb (% Ib.) butter 

172 cups chicken stock or 
canned chicken broth 

A round of waxed paper 


2 cups light cream 
Salt and pepper 


3 Tb minced fresh savory, 
basil, tarragon, or parsley 


Trim and wash the beans according to directions on 
page 442, being sure all strings have been removed. 
Preheat oven to 350 degrees. 


Butter the casserole or baking dish heavily. Spread 


the onions in the bottom, arrange the beans over 
them, and season with salt and pepper. Bury the herb 
bouquet in their midst. Distribute the lettuce over the 
beans. Sliver the rest of the butter over the lettuce. 
Pour in the stock or broth. Set casserole over heat and 
bring liquid to the simmer. Place the round of paper 
over the vegetables, cover the casserole and set in 
lower third of oven. Regulate heat so liquid simmers 
regularly and has almost evaporated in 45 minutes. 
Remove herb bouquet. 


Bring the cream to the boil and pour it into the cas- 
serole. Bake 30 minutes more. Correct seasoning. 

(*) May be set aside, partially covered, and reheated 
at serving time. 


Sprinkle with herbs just before bringing casserole to 


table. 


FROZEN BEANS 449 





FROZEN GREEN OR WAX BEANS. 


Frozen beans cook more evenly if they are partially thawed and not 
stuck all together in a solid block. When you are doing more than two pack- 
ages, use two saucepans; if too many beans are cooked in one pan, the liquid 
will not evaporate by the time the beans are tender. Cut beans have more flavor 
than Frenched beans. 


For each ro-ounce package Bring the liquid, shallots or onions, salt, and butter 
of beans: to the boil in the saucepan. Add the partially thawed 

Y, cup chicken stock, canned beans. Cover and boil slowly for 5 to 6 minutes, toss- 
chicken broth, canned ing occasionally, until the beans are just tender. Re- 
mushroom broth, or wa- move cover and rapidly boil off any remaining liquid. 
ter Correct seasoning. 

1 Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 

V4 tsp salt 

1 Tb butter 

A heavy bottomed, enam- 
eled saucepan or skillet 
with cover 


The beans may now be used in any of the preceding green bean recipes. 
If they are to be simmered in cream or in a sauce, use half the amount of liquid 
for their preliminary cooking, and cook only until partially tender. They will 
finish cooking in the sauce. 

If you wish to do the preliminary cooking in advance, spread the cooked 
beans out in one layer in a big cold saucepan or dish so they will cool rapidly. 

If the beans are to be served cold, use olive oil rather than butter in the 
preceding recipe, and spread the beans out afterward in one layer to cool 
rapidly. 


BRUSSELS SPROUTS 
Choux de Bruxelles 


Cooked Brussels sprouts should be bright green, fresh-tasting, and have 
the slightest suggestion of crunch at the core. Overcooked sprouts become 
yellowish, mushy, and develop the flavor of stale cabbage. 


459 CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 


Choose firm, healthy, fresh, rounded heads all of the same size with bright 
green leaves. Soft-headed sprouts are overmature, tasteless, or unhealthy, and 
will cook into a pulp. 


AMOUNT TO BUY 


A 1-quart basket weighting about 114 pounds will serve 4 or 5 people as 
a vegetable garnish. Pl | 


SERVING SUGGESTIONS 


Buttered Brussels sprouts go well with roast duck, goose, turkey, beef, 
pork, liver, ham, and sausages. Creamed Brussels sprouts may be served with 
any of these, and also with roast chicken or veal. 


PREPARATION FOR COOKING 


Trim the base of each Brussels sprout with a small knife and pierce a 
cross in it for quick cooking. Remove any wilted or yellowish leaves. Discard 
any sprouts which are soft-headed, yellowish, or worm-eaten. Wash the 
trimmed vegetables quickly in a large basin of cold water and drain. Modern 
growing methods seem to have eliminated burrowing insects, so it is nowadays 
rarely necessary, as it used to be, to soak the vegetables for 10 to 15 minutes in 
salted water. 


CHOUX DE BRUXELLES BLANCHIS 
[Blanched Brussels Sprouts—Preliminary Cooking] 


Brussels sprouts, whether they are to be served with melted butter and 
seasonings or are to be simmered or braised, always receive a blanching in a 


large kettle of boiling salted water. This preliminary may be accomplished 
hours before the final cooking is to take place. 


1 to 2 quarts Brussels Drop the Brussels sprouts into the rapidly boiling 
sprouts, trimmed and salted water. Bring to the boil again as rapidly as 
washed possible. 

A large kettle containing 7 
to 8 quarts of rapidly boil- 
ing water 

1/2 tsp salt per quart of wa- j 
ter 


BRUSSELS SPROUTS 451 


Partially cooked 


A skimmer If the vegetables are to be partially cooked and fin- 
A colander ished off later as directed in most of the following 
| recipes, boil them slowly, uncovered, for 6 to 8 min- 
utes, or until almost tender. Immediately remove with 

_a skimmer and drain in a colander. 


Fully cooked 


If they are to be fully cooked, and served at once with 
melted butter à l'anglaise, boil them slowly, uncov- 
ered, for a total of 10 to 12 minutes. They are done 
when a knife pierces the stem of a sprout easily; cut 
one in half and eat it, to be sure. Drain immediately. 


AHEAD-OF-TIME BLANCHING 


If the Brussels sprouts are not to be used at once, as soon as they have 
been drained spread them out in one layer, not touching one another, on a 
double thickness of clean toweling. This lets the air circulate around them and 
cool them quickly, so that they retain their color and texture. (You may plunge 
them into cold water instead, if you wish, but we think the one-layer cooling 
gives a better texture.) When the Brussels sprouts are thoroughly cold, they 
may be refrigerated and will keep perfectly for 24 hours. Complete the cooking 
as directed in any of the following recipes. 


x CHOUX DE BRUXELLES ETUVES AU BEURRE 


[Brussels Sprouts Braised in Butter] 


Serve braised Brussels sprouts with roast turkey, pork, duck, or goose, 
steaks, chops, hamburgers, or sautéed liver. You may dress up braised Brussels 
sprouts with cream, cheese, or chestnuts, as suggested in the variations at the 
end of the recipe. 


For 6 people 


1¥, Tb softened butter Preheat oven to 350 degrees, and smear the butter in- 
A 2'%4-quart, fireproof, cov- side the casserole or baking dish. 

ered casserole or baking 

dish large enough to hold 

the Brussels sprouts in 1 

or 2 layers 


452 


11⁄4 quarts blanched Brussels 
sprouts (partially cooked), 
page 450 

Salt and pepper 

2 to 4 Tb melted butter 


A round of lightly buttered 
waxed paper 


CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 


Arrange the blanched Brussels sprouts heads up in 


the casserole or baking dish. Sprinkle lightly with salt 
and pepper, and with the melted butter. 


Lay the paper over the Brussels sprouts. Cover and 
heat on top of the stove until vegetables begin to 
sizzle, then place in middle level of preheated oven. 
Bake for about 20 minutes, or until the sprouts are 
tender and well impregnated with butter. Serve as 
soon as possible. 





VARIATIONS 


Choux de Bruxelles Étuvés à la Crème 


[Creamed Brussels Sprouts] 


Serve these with veal, chicken, or turkey. 


For 6 people 


1/2 quarts Brussels sprouts 

1, to 3⁄4 cup boiling whip- 
ping cream 

Salt and pepper 

1 to 2 Tb butter cut into 
pea-sized dots 


Braise the Brussels sprouts as in the preceding recipe, 
but use only 2 tablespoons of butter. After the cas- 
serole has been in the oven for 10 minutes, pour on 
the boiling cream and continue baking for 10 more 
minutes or until the vegetables are tender. They will 
have absorbed most of the cream. Correct seasoning, 
dot with butter, and serve as soon as possible. 


Choux de Bruxelles aux Marrons 


[Brussels Sprouts Braised with Chestnuts | 


This recipe is particularly good with roast turkey, duck, or goose. 


For 6 people 


1% quarts Brussels sprouts 
braised in butter 
2 cups braised chestnuts, 


page 519 


4 


Follow the preceding master recipe for braising the 
Brussels sprouts, but add the braised chestnuts to the 
casserole to cook with them. 


BRUSSELS SPROUTS 453 





Choux de Bruxelles à la Mornay, Gratinés 


[Brussels Sprouts Gratinéed with Cheese Sauce] 


Serve these with roast chicken or veal, or as a luncheon or supper dish. 


For 6 people 


172 quarts Brussels sprouts 
braised in butter 

2 cups hot sauce mornay 
(béchamel with cheese), 
page 61 

A lightly buttered baking 
dish about 9 inches in di- 
ameter and 2 inches deep 

4 cup grated Swiss cheese 

1 Tb butter cut into pea- 
sized dots 





Follow the preceding master recipe for braising the 
Brussel sprouts; you may use only 2 tablespoons of 
butter if you wish. Prepare the sauce, and spread one 
third of it in the baking dish when the sprouts are 
done. Arrange the Brussels sprouts over the sauce, 
spoon the rest of the sauce over them, and sprinkle 
with cheese and dots of butter. Set under a moderately 
hot broiler for 2 to 3 minutes to brown lightly, and 
serve at once. 


Choux de Bruxelles à la Milanaise 


[Brussels Sprouts Browned with Cheese] 


These cheese-coated Brussels sprouts are good with steaks and chops. 


For 6 people 


114 quarts Brussels sprouts 
braised in butter 

Y% cup grated Swiss cheese 
mixed with 14 cup grated 
Parmesan cheese 

2 Tb melted butter 


Follow the preceding master recipe for braising the 


Brussels sprouts, but when they have been in the oven 
10 minutes, turn them into a bowl. Reset oven to 425 
degrees. Sprinkle 2 to 3 tablespoons of cheese in the 
casserole or baking dish to coat the bottom and sides. 
Return the Brussels sprouts, spreading the rest of the 
cheese over each layer. Pour on the melted butter. 
Place uncovered in upper third of oven for 10 to 15 
minutes, to brown the cheese nicely. 





CHOUX DE BRUXELLES A LA CREME 
[Brussels Sprouts Chopped and Simmered in Cream] 


Serve this dish with steaks or chops, roast beef or lamb, pork, duck, or 


goose. 


For 6 people 


454 


114 quarts Brussels sprouts, 
trimmed and washed 


3 Tb butter 

A 10-inch enameled skillet 
LA tsp salt 

Big pinch of pepper 


34 cup whipping cream 
Salt and pepper 


1 to 2 Tb softened butter 
A hot vegetable dish 
2 Tb minced parsley 


CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 


Follow the recipe for blanched Brussels sprouts, page 


450, but boil them for 5 minutes only. Drain. If you 
are not proceeding at once with the rest of this recipe, 
let them cool in one layer. Chop them roughly. 


Heat the butter to bubbling in the skillet. Add the 
chopped Brussels sprouts and season with salt and 
pepper. Shake them over moderately high heat for 
several minutes to evaporate their moisture but not 
to brown them. 


Pour in the cream. Bring to the simmer. Cover the 


skillet and cook at a slow simmer for 8 to 10 minutes 
or until the vegetables have almost entirely absorbed 
the cream and are tender. Correct seasoning. 


Reheat to the simmer just before serving. Off heat, 


fold in the butter. Turn into a hot vegetable dish, 
sprinkle with parsley, and serve. 


TIMBALE DE CHOUX DE BRUXELLES 
[Brussels Sprouts Mold | 


This is a purée of Brussels sprouts mixed with eggs, milk, cheese, and 


bread crumbs, cooked in a mold, then unmolded and served with a cream 
sauce. It makes an unusual luncheon dish, or a fine accompaniment to roast 
veal or chicken. Use the same method and ingredients as for the asparagus 

mold, page 440, substituting blanched, chopped Brussels sprouts for asparagus. 





FROZEN BRUSSELS SPROUTS 


This recipe is for fully-cooked Brussels sprouts. If you wish to substitute 
partially cooked frozen sprouts for fresh ones in any of the preceding recipes, 
use half the amount of water indicated here, and cook the sprouts until they 
are almost but not quite tender, 3 to 4 minutes. (When you are cooking more 
than two packages, use two saucepans; if too many vegetables are cooked in 
one pan, the liquid will not evaporate by the time they are tender.) 


a 


For each 10-ounce package Allow the frozen Brussels sprouts to thaw just enough 
frozen Brussels sprouts: so that you can separate them. Boil the water with the 


BRUSSELS SPROUTS 455 


V2 cup water salt and butter in a saucepan. Add the vegetables, 
VY tsp salt cover, and boil slowly for 6 to 8 minutes or until the 
1 Tb butter sprouts are tender. Uncover saucepan and rapidly boil 
Salt and pepper off any remaining liquid. Correct seasoning. 


(*) If not to be used immediately, spread them out in 
one layer in a large, cold saucepan or dish. 





BROCCOLI 
Choux Broccoli — Choux Asperges 


Broccoli, for some reason, is rarely seen in France though it abounds 
next door in Italy. We shall therefore not give it full-dress treatment, though 
we think it a delicious and useful vegetable. 


PREPARATION FOR COOKING 


Fresh broccoli will cook much more rapidly and stay greener if you di- 
vide it into flowerets about 3 inches long and then peel the thin, green skin 
off the stalks. Peel the cut-off butt ends deeply enough to expose the whitish, 
tender flesh, and cut into bias lengths. 


BLANCHING 

Blanch the prepared broccoli in a large kettle of boiling, salted water; 
first put in the pieces of stem and boil 5 minutes, then add the flowerets. Be- 
cause it is a fragile vegetable, broccoli is easier to handle if you place it in a 
vegetable rack which you may set into the boiling water, and lift out with the 
broccoli when it is done. If the broccoli is to be partially cooked then braised, 
or simmered in a sauce, boil the flowerets for about 5 minutes or until almost 
tender. Fully cooked broccoli that is to be served with melted butter or a sauce 
such as hollandaise requires 8 to 10 minutes of cooking, or until a knife pierces 
the stems easily. Drain immediately. 


FROZEN BROCCOLI 
Cook frozen broccoli in the same manner as frozen Brussels sprouts, 
page 454 
SAUCES FOR PLAIN, BOILED BROCCOLI 
Sauces for hot or cold broccoli are the same as those suggested for aspara- 


gus, pages 437-8 


456 CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 


OTHER COOKING METHODS 


Broccoli may be substituted for Brussels sprouts in any of the following 
recipes in the Brussels sprouts section: 

Braised in Butter, page 451 ` 

Creamed, page 452 

Gratinéed with Cheese Sauce, page 453 

Browned with Swiss and Parmesan Cheese, page 453 

Chopped and Simmered in Cream, page 453 

Baked in a mold with eggs, milk, and cheese, then unmolded. See the 
master recipe for asparagus molds on page 440. 


SERVING SUGGESTIONS 


Hot or cold broccoli with a sauce such as hollandaise or vinaigrette may 
be served, like asparagus, as a separate vegetable course. Creamed broccoli goes 
with roast or broiled chicken, roast veal, or sautéed veal scallops. Broccoli with 
melted butter or browned with cheese goes with sautéed liver, steaks, chops, 
and broiled chicken. 


CAULIFLOWER 
Chou-fleur 


Choose cauliflowers with hard, clean, white heads containing firm, com- 
pact, flower clusters. The leaves surrounding the head should be fresh, healthy, 
and green. 


AMOUNT TO BUY 


A trimmed cauliflower head about 8 inches across will serve 4 to 6 people 
as a vegetable garnish. 


SERVING SUGGESTIONS 


Cauliflower gratinéed or served with a sauce may constitute a separate 
vegetable course. All types of cauliflower dishes go with roast turkey, chicken, 
lamb, beef, pork, and with steaks or chops. ; 


PREPARATION FOR COOKING 


Cauliflower cooks more evenly if you divide it into flowerets; we 
therefore always advise that you do so. Pull the outside leaves off the cauli- 


CAULIFLOWER 457 


flower and cut the stem off close under the head. The smaller leaves and the 
peeled stem may be used for soup. Cut the flowerets off the central stalk, and 
peel the thin skin off their stems with a knife. Cut a slit in any stems larger 
than 1% inch in diameter, so they will cook quickly. Peel the central stalk 
deeply enough to expose its tender flesh, and cut it in bias pieces. Wash the 
cauliflower rapidly in a large basin of cold water. Drain. 


x CHOU-FLEUR BLANCHI . 
[Blanched Cauliflower - Preliminary Cooking] 


x or 2 heads of cauliflower, Drop the washed cauliflower into the rapidly boiling 
cut into flowerets water; use a vegetable rack if you have one. Bring 
A large kettle containing 7 back to the boil as quickly as possible. Boil slowly, 
to 8 quarts of boiling wa- uncovered, for g to 12 minutes. The cauliflower is 


ter done when a knife pierces the stems easily. Eat a 
14 tsp salt per quart of wa- piece to be sure. Ft should be tender but retain the 
ter merest suggestion of crunchiness at the core. 


A vegetable rack set in the 
kettle is useful 

Optional: add x cup of milk 
to kettle for each 3 quarts 
of boiling water, to keep 
cauliflower white 


As soon as it is done, carefully remove the cauliflower 
with a skimmer or spoon and drain in a colander, 
or remove the rack with cauliflower in it. 


Refreshing Blanched Cauliflower 


When cooked cauliflower is not to be served immediately or is to be 
served cold, it should be refreshed in cold water as soon as it is blanched. This 
stops the cooking so that the cauliflower retains its fresh taste and texture. 
Plunge the colander or vegetable rack holding the hot cauliflower into a large 
basin of cold water for 2 to 3 minutes. Drain. 


Reheating 

If the refreshed cauliflower is to be served hot with melted butter or sauce, 
steam it in a covered colander over boiling water for 4 to 5 minutes until hot 
through. Then season with salt and pepper, and it is ready for saucing and 


serving. 


458 CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 


How to Mold Cooked Cauliflower into its Original Shape 


It is not necessary, of course, to mold the cooked flowerets back into the 
shape of a whole head, but it makes an attractive presentation. 

Select a bow] slightly smaller than the width and depth of the cauliflower 
head before it was cut into flowerets. Set the bowl over simmering water to 
warm it. When the cauliflower heads have been blanched and drained, one by 
one place the longest flowerets in the bottom of the bowl, heads down and 
stems converging at the center of the bowl. Continue with the rest of the flow- 
erets, arranging their heads around the sides of the bowl until it is filled. Place 
the cooked pieces of stem on top. Then turn a warm, round, serving dish up- 
side down over the bowl. Reverse the bowl onto the dish and remove the bowl; 
the cauliflower will stand molded in approximately its original shape. 


SAUCES FOR HOT CAULIFLOWER 


Here is a list of sauces to serve with hot cauliflower; about 1 to 114 cups 
are sufficient for an 8-inch head. If the cauliflower has been molded, spoon 
Y, of the sauce over the stems before reversing the bowl. 

Beurre au Citron, lemon butter sauce, page 98 

Beurre Noir, brown butter sauce, page 98. You may brown % cup of 
fresh, white bread crumbs with the butter. Sieved hard-boiled egg yolks and 
chopped parsley mixed into the butter and breadcrumbs turn the cauliflower 
into chou-fleur à la polonaise. 

Sauce Crème, béchamel with cream, page 59 

Sauce Bâtarde, mock hollandaise, page 64 

Sauce Hollandaise, page 79 

Sauce Mousseline, hollandaise with cream, page 83 





Sauce ala Créme 


[Fresh Cream Sauce] 


For an 8-inch cauliflower 


2 cups whipping cream Simmer the cream in the saucepan until reduced by. 
A small saucepan half. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and drops of 
Salt and white pepper lemon juice. Set aside until ready to use, then reheat. 


CAULIFLOWER 


Lemon juice 

2 Tb softened butter 
A wire whip 
Parsley sprigs 


459 


Remove from heat and beat in the butter half a table- 
spoon at a time and pour the sauce over the hot 
cauliflower. Decorate with parsley and serve. 


CHOU-FLEUR A LA MORNAY, GRATINE 


[Cauliflower au gratin with Cheese] 


Cauliflower au gratin may be prepared for the oven well in advance of 


serving, and goes with all kinds of roasts, chops, and steaks. You may, if you 


wish, mold the cauliflower in a bowl before saucing it, page 458, so it will pre- 


serve its round shape. 


For 4 to 6 people 


An 8-inch cauliflower cut 
into flowerets 


212 cups sauce mornay (bé- 
chamel with cheese), 
page 61 

A lightly buttered baking 
dish about 8 inches in di- 
ameter and 2 inches deep 

Salt and pepper 

2 Tb fine, dry, white bread 
crumbs mixed with 2 Tb 
grated Swiss cheese 

2 Tb melted butter 


Following directions on page 457, blanch the cauli- 


flower in 7 to 8 quarts of boiling, salted water for 9 to 


.12 minutes, refresh in cold water, and drain. 


Spread 14 of the sauce in the baking dish. Arrange 


the cauliflower over it and season with salt and pep- 
per. Pour on the rest of the sauce and sprinkle the 
top with bread crumbs and cheese. Dribble on the 
melted butter. 

(*) Set aside, covered loosely with waxed paper, un- 
til ready to bake. 


About 30 minutes before serving time, place in upper 
third of a preheated 375-degree oven to warm through 
thoroughly and to brown lightly. Serve as soon as 
possible. 





CHOU-FLEUR AUX TOMATES FRAICHES 


[Cauliflower Gratinéed with Cheese and Tomatoes] 


This dish is particularly good with steaks, chops, and hamburgers. 


For 4 to 6 people 


460 


An 8-inch head of cauli- 
flower, cut into flowerets 


1 lb. firm, ripe, red tomatoes, 
peeled, seeded, and juiced, 
page 505 (makes 1% 
cups of pulp) 


A shallow 10-inch buttered 
baking dish 

Y tsp salt 

Big pinch of pepper 

12 cup melted butter 

Y% cup fine, dry, white 
bread crumbs mixed with 
12 cup grated Swiss and 
Parmesan cheese 


CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 


Following directions on page 457, blanch the cauli- 


flower in boiling salted water for 9 to 12 minutes, re- 
fresh in cold water, and drain. 


Cut the tomato pulp into strips 14 inch wide. 


Arrange the cauliflower in the center of the dish. 
Place the tomatoes around the edge of the dish. Sea- 
son the vegetables with salt, pepper, and half the 
melted butter. Spread the cheese and bread crumbs 
over the vegetables, and pour on the rest of the melted 
butter. 

(*) Set aside until ready to bake. 


About 30 minutes before serving time, place in upper 


third of a preheated 375-degree oven to warm through 
thoroughly and brown the cheese nicely. Serve as soon 
as possible. 


CHOU-FLEUR EN VERDURE 


[Purée of Cauliflower and Water Cress with Cream] 


Serve this delectable purée with roast veal, chicken, or turkey, broiled or 
‘sautéed chicken, chicken breasts, or veal scallops. 


For 4 to 6 people 


An 8-inch head of cauli- 
flower 

A bunch of fresh water 
cress about 3 inches in di- 
ameter across the stems 

A kettle containing 7 to 8 
quarts of rapidly boiling 
water 

1¥ tsp salt per quart of wa- 
ter 


Separate the cauliflower head into flowerets; peel off 
and discard the tough skin of the central stalk and 
chop the stalk. Cut off the bunch of water cress just 
above the point where the stems join the leaves (stems 
may be used for soup). Wash and drain the vegeta- 
bles. Drop the cauliflower into the boiling, salted wa- 
ter and boil slowly for 6 minutes. Then add the wa- 
tercress leaves and boil 4 to 5 minutes more, or until 
cauliflower is just tender. Drain. ` 


CAULIFLOWER 


A food mill 

A 3-quart mixing bowl 

A rubber scraper 

2 cups thick béchamel 
sauce page 57 (3/2. Tb 
butter, 5 Tb flour, 2 cups 
boiling milk, salt, and 
pepper) 

Y cup whipping cream 

V2 cup grated Swiss cheese 

Salt and pepper 


A lightly buttered baking 
dish 8 to 9 inches in di- 
ameter and 2 inches deep 

2 Tb fine, dry, white bread 
crumbs mixed with 2 Tb 
grated Swiss cheese 

2 Tb melted butter 


461 


Purée the cauliflower and water cress through the 
food mill and place purée in mixing bowl. Fold in 
the béchamel sauce. By spoonfuls, fold in the cream 
but do not thin out the purée too much; it should 
just hold its shape when a bit is lifted on the scraper. 
Fold in the cheese, and season to taste with salt and 


pepper. 


Heap the purée in the baking dish. Sprinkle on the 
cheese and bread crumbs, then the melted butter. 
(*) Set aside until ready to bake. 


About 30 minutes before serving, place in upper third 
of a preheated 375-degree oven to heat through thor- 
oughly and brown the cheese and bread crumbs. Serve 
as soon as possible. 


TIMBALE DE CHOU-FLEUR 


[Cauliflower Mold] 


This is a purée of cooked cauliflower mixed with eggs, bread crumbs, 
cheese, and milk. It is baked in a soufflé mold, unmolded, and surrounded with 
a sauce. Use the recipe for asparagus mold on page 440, substituting cauli- 
flower for the asparagus. Other sauces to serve besides those suggested in the 


recipe are: 


Coulis de Tomates, fresh tomato sauce with herbs, page 78 
Sauce au Cari, béchamel with curry and onions, page 63 


GREEN PEAS 
Petits Pots 


The tenderest, freshest, and sweetest peas have bright green pods that are 
rather velvety to the touch. The pods should be fairly well filled. A perfect 


462 CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 


raw pea will taste tender and sweet. As peas mature they become larger, harder, 
and less sweet; but even a quite tough pea will make good eating if it is cooked 
in the right way. Choose, if possible, pods of equal size with peas all at the 
same stage of development so they will cook evenly. 

As we have not the space in this book to cover every aspect of pea cookery, 
we have felt it would be most useful to present one fundamental recipe each 
for the small tender pea, the large tender pea, the tough pea, peas à la française, 
and frozen and canned peas. 


AMOUNT TO BUY 


One pound of small, tender peas will usually furnish about 1 cup of 
shelled peas. l 

One pound of large peas will usually furnish about 114 cups of shelled 
peas. 

One cup of shelled peas will serve from 1 to 3 people depending on your 
menu. We have based our recipes on 2 people per cup. 


SERVING SUGGESTIONS 


Beautifully cooked peas make a delicious separate vegetable course, and 
they may accompany almost anything from eggs and roasts to stews. 


THREE RECIPES FOR BUTTERED PEAS 


Each of the three recipes here is designed for peas of a particular quality, 
from sweet and tender to rather tough. Pick the recipe which corresponds to 
the type of peas you are to cook. 


Petits Pois Frais à l’ Anglaise 


[Buttered Peas I—for very tender, sweet, fresh, green peas] 


Anyone who has eaten a plateful of small, tender, fresh, green peas in 
Italy or France in the springtime is not likely to forget the experience. These 
best-of-all peas are always cooked by blanching in a very large kettle of boiling 
salted water. They are served at once à l'anglaise, meaning they are merely 
seasoned, turned into a vegetable dish, and topped with pieces of butter. This 
simple and fundamental treatment preserves, unadulterated, their color, tex- 
ture, and taste. sut 


For 6 people 


GREEN PEAS 


3 lbs. of very tender, sweet, 
young, fresh green peas 
(3 cups, shelled) 

A large kettle containing 7 
to 8 quarts of rapidly boil- 
ing water 


172 tsp salt per quart of 


water 


A colander 

A heavy-bottomed saucepan 

Salt and pepper 

12 to 1 Tb granulated sugar 
(depending on sweetness 
of peas) 

A hot vegetable dish 

6 Tb butter, formed into 
little shells or cut into 
pieces 


463 


Drop the shelled peas into the rapidly boiling salted 


water. Bring the water to the boil again as quickly as 
possible. Boil slowly, uncovered, for 4 to 8 minutes, 
testing the peas frequently by eating one. They will 
have more taste and be greener if they are drained at 
the point where they are tender but still retain a sug- 
gestion of texture. But this is a matter of personal 
taste, and they may be boiled a few more minutes if 
you wish. 


Drain the peas immediately. Place in the saucepan 
with the seasonings and roll them gently over mod- 
erate heat for a moment or two to evaporate all their 
humidity. Correct seasoning. Turn the peas into a hot 
vegetable dish, arrange the butter over them, and serve 
at once. 





Petits Pois Etuvés au Beurre 


[Buttered Peas II—for large but tender fresh green peas] 


This is for the larger pea, the kind you usually find at your market. 


For 6 people 
2 Ibs. large but tender fresh 
green peas (3 cups, 
shelled) 


A kettle containing 7 to 8 
quarts of rapidly boiling 
water 

1⁄4 tsp salt per quart of 
water 

A colander 


A heavy-bottomed, 6- to 8- 
cup enameled saucepan 

1 to 2 Tb granulated sugar 
(depending on the sweet- 
ness of the peas) 


Drop the peas in the boiling salted water and boil un- 


covered for 5 to 10 minutes or until the peas are al- 
most but not quite tender. They will finish cooking 
later. Drain. 

(*y If the peas are not to be served immediately, re- 
fresh them in cold water for 3 to 4 minutes to stop 
the cooking and to retain their color and texture. 
Drain. 


Roll the peas in the saucepan over moderate heat for 


a moment or two to evaporate their moisture. Then 
roll them with the sugar, salt, pepper, butter, and op- 
tional mint. When the peas are well coated with but- 
ter, cover and cook over very low heat for about 10 


464 


Y tsp salt 

Big pinch of pepper 

6 Tb softened butter 

Optional English touch: 1 
to 2 Tb minced fresh mint 
leaves 

Salt and pepper 

A hot vegetable dish 


CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 


minutes, tossing occasionally, until they are tender. 
Correct seasoning, turn into a hot vegetable dish, and 
serve as soon as possible. 


Petits Pois aux Oignons 


[Buttered Peas with Onions | 


12 to 18 small, white, peeled 
onions boiled in salted 
water until almost tender, 
OR 3 to 5 Tb minced 
shallots or green onions 


Prepare the peas as in the preceding recipe, but add 
boiled onions or diced shallots or green onions to the 
saucepan with the peas and seasonings for the final, 
10-minute cooking period. 


Pois Frais en Braisage 


[Buttered Peas III—for large, rather tough, fresh green peas] 


This is for large, mature, end-of-season peas. They remain green after 
cooking, become tender, and have a fine flavor though they will look a bit 


wrinkled. 
For 6 people 


A  heavy-bottomed, 21⁄2- 
quart enameled saucepan 

2 lbs. of large, mature, fresh 
peas (3 cups, shelled) 

1 large head of Boston let- 
tuce, shredded 

12 tsp salt 

2 Tb granulated sugar 

4 Tb minced green onions 

6 Tb softened butter 


A hot vegetable dish 


Place in the saucepan the peas and all the rest of the 


ingredients. Squeeze the peas with your hands rather 
roughly to bruise them slightly, and to mix them 
thoroughly with the butter, lettuce, onions, and sea- 
sonings. Add enough cold water to cover the peas by 


Y, inch. 


7 


Cover the saucepan and set over moderately high heat. 


Boil rapidly for 20 to 30 minutes; test the peas fre- 
quently by eating one after 20 minutes, to see if they 
are tender. Add 2 to 3 tablespoons more water if it 


GREEN PEAS 


465 


evaporates before the peas are done. When they are 
tender, uncover and quickly boil off any remaining 
liquid. Taste for seasoning. Turn into a hot vegetable 
dish, and serve. j 

(*) If not served immediately, set aside uncovered. 
Shortly before serving, add 2 to 3 tablespoons of wa- 
ter, cover, and boil slowly until the peas are well 
warmed through and the water has evaporated. 





PETITS POIS FRAIS À LA FRANÇAISE 


[Peas Braised with Lettuce and Onions—for medium sized, tender, fresh 


peas] 


This dish is considered the glory of pea cookery; it should really be 
served as a separate course and eaten with a spoon. If you wish to have a wine 


with the peas, serve a chilled white that is not too dry, such as Traminer or 


Graves, or a chilled rosé. 
For 4 to 6 people 


1% firm, fresh heads of 
Boston lettuce 7 to 8 
inches in diameter 

White string 


6 Tb butter 

VY cup water 

112 Tb granulated sugar 

Y tsp salt 

Y tsp pepper 

A heavy-bottomed, 3-quart, 
enameled saucepan 

3 lbs. medium sized, tender, 
fresh green peas (3 cups, 
shelled) 

4 parsley stems tied together 
with white string 

12 green onion bulbs about 
1 inch in diameter OR 
small white onions boiled 
for 5 minutes in salted 
water 


Remove wilted leaves, trim the stems, and wash the 
lettuce heads carefully so they will not break apart. 
Cut into quarters. Wind several loops of string about 
each quarter to keep it in shape as much as possible 
during the cooking. 


Bring the butter, water, and seasonings to the boil in 


the saucepan. Then add the peas and toss to cover 
them with the liquid. Bury the parsley in their midst. 
Arrange the lettuce quarters over them and baste with 
the liquid. Pierce a cross in the root ends of the onions 
(for even cooking) and disperse them among the let- 
tuce quarters. 


466 


A domed lid or a soup plate 


Salt and pepper 


2 Tb softened butter 
A hot vegetable dish 


FROZEN PEAS 


CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 





So that the cooking steam will condense and fall back 
onto the peas, invert a lid over the saucepan and fill 
it with cold water or ice cubes; or use a soup plate. 
Bring the peas to the boil-and boil slowly for 20 to 30 
minutes or until tender. Several times during this 
period, remove the cover and toss the peas and vege- 
tables to insure éven cooking. As the water warms up 
and evaporates in the cover or soup plate, refill with 
ice cubes or cold water. 


When the peas are tender their cooking liquid should 
have almost entirely evaporated. Correct seasoning. 


Discard the parsley and the lettuce strings. Just before 
serving, toss the peas and onions with the butter. Turn 
them into the vegetable dish, place the lettuce around 
the edge of the dish, and serve at once. 


This method of cooking frozen peas gives them the character they often 
lack. Use two saucepans when you are cooking more than two 10-ounce boxes; 
if too many peas are cooked in one pan, the cooking liquid will not evaporate 
by the time the peas are done. 


For each ro-ounce package 
of frozen peas: 

1 Tb butter 

1 Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 

14 tsp salt 

Pinch of pepper 

72 cup chicken stock or 
canned chicken or mush- 
room broth, or water 


Allow the peas to thaw enough so they can be sepa- 
rated. Bring the butter, shallots or green onions, sea- 
sonings, and liquid to the boil in a saucepan. Add the 
peas, cover, and boil slowly for 5 to 6 minutes or until 
the peas are tender, Uncover and rapidly boil off any 
remaining liquid. Correct seasoning. 


CANNED PEAS 467 





CANNED PEAS 


Here is a way to improve the flavor of canned peas. 


For each No. 2 can of peas Turn the peas into a sieve and run cold water over 
(1% lbs. or 212 cups): _ them. Drain. 


144 Tb minced shallots or Cook the shallots or onions in the butter for a mo- 


green onions ment. Add the peas and seasonings and toss them in 
2 Tb butter the butter. Then add the stock or broth, cover the 
Salt and pepper to taste peas, and boil slowly for a few moments until the peas 
3 Tb stock or mushroom are warmed through. Uncover, raise heat, and rapidly 
broth boil off any remaining liquid. 
. SPINACH 


Epinards 


Spinach is an excellent vegetable when it is cooked properly. Except for 
the tenderest and freshest garden variety which may be simmered slowly in 
seasonings, butter, and its own juices, spinach is first blanched in a large kettle 
of boiling salted water; then all the water is pressed out of it, and it is sim- 
mered in butter and meat stock or cream. In addition to its role as a vegetable, 
it can serve as a bed for poached eggs, fish, or breasts of chicken. It is also used 
in various stuffings, and makes an excellent soufflé, tart, or mold. 


SERVING SUGGESTIONS 
Spinach goes with just about everything, eggs, fish, chicken, sweetbreads, 
ham, roasts, steaks, chops, sautés. Or it may constitute a separate vegetable 
course. The gratins may also serve as entrées, luncheon, or supper dishes. If it 
is a separate course, a dry white wine such as a Riesling goes with spinach 
braised in butter or in stock. Serve a less dry white wine, such as a Graves, with 
spinach braised in cream. 


AMOUNT TO BUY 


One pound of fresh spinach yields about 1 cup of cooked spinach, and 
we shall consider that enough for 2 people. 


468 CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 


PREPARATION FOR COOKING 


If the spinach is young and tender, the stems are usually removed at the 
base of the leaf. For more mature spinach, fold the leaf vertically, its underside 
up, in the fingers of one hand; grasp the stem in the other hand and rip it off 
toward the tip of the leaf, thus removing with the stem the tough tendrils 
which are attached to the underside of the leaf. Discard any wilted or yellow 
leaves. Whether or not it is claimed that the spinach is washed, plunge it into 
a large basin of cold water and pump it up and down for several minutes with 
your hands. Lift it out into a colander, leaving any sand in the bottom of the 
basin. Wash the spinach several times more, if necessary, until there is no sand 
to be seen in the bottom of the basin. Drain, and the spinach is ready for 
cooking. 


EPINARDS BLANCHIS 
[Blanched, Chopped Spinach—Preliminary Cooking | 
For 3 cups of blanched, chopped spinach 


3 lbs. fresh spinach Prepare and wash the spinach as described in the pre- 
ceding paragraph. 


A large kettle containing at A handful at a time, drop the spinach into the boiling 
least 7 to 8 quarts of rap- salted water. Bring back to the boil as rapidly as pos- 
idly boiling water sible and boil slowly, uncovered, for about 2 minutes, 

172 tsp salt per quart of wa- or until the spinach is almost tender. Test it by eating 
ter a piece. 


A large colander At once, set the colander, curved side down, into the 
kettle. Protecting your hands with a towel, hold the 
colander firmly clamped to the sides of the kettle 
as you tilt the kettle and pour out the water. Still with 
the colander in place, run cold water into the kettle 
for several minutes to refresh the spinach. This will 
preserve its color and texture. Remove colander and 
lift the spinach out of the water into the colander, 
thus leaving any possible bits of sand in the bottom òf 
the kettle. 


SPINACH 


À stainless steel chopping 
knife or a food mill 


WARNING 


469 


À small amount at a time, squeeze the spinach in 


your hands to extract as much water as possible—last 
drops of water from each squeeze may be saved for 
soup. i 


Chop the spinach with a big knife on a chopping 
board, or, if you want a fine purée, put it through a 
food mill. The spinach is now ready for further cook- 
ing and flavoring. 

(*) May be done several hours or a day in advance. 
Cover and refrigerate. 


Spinach quickly picks up an astringent and metallic taste if its final cook- 
ing is in iron or aluminum. For the following recipes, use only enamel, pyrex, 
earthenware, or stainless steel saucepans or baking dishes, and serve the spinach 
in enamel or porcelain, not silver. 


* PURÉE D’EPINARDS SIMPLE 
[Cooked Chopped Spinach—Purée of Spinach] 


This is the last step in preparing spinach for use in soufflés, quiches, cus- 
tards, crépes, stuffings, or for final cooking in any of the following recipes. The 
directions on page 475 also bring frozen spinach to this point. 

For 3 cups, or for 6 people 


2 Tb butter 

A 2¥%-quart  heavy-bot- 
tomed, enameled sauce- 
pan 

3 cups blanched spinach, 
chopped or puréed (di- 
rections in preceding 
recipe) 

Salt and pepper 

Pinch of nutmeg 


When the butter is bubbling in the saucepan over 
moderately high heat, stir in the spinach. Continue 
stirring for 2 to 3 minutes until all the moisture from 
the spinach has boiled off—the spinach will begin to 
adhere to the bottom of the pan. Season to taste, and 
the spinach is ready to use. 


470 


CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 





RECIPES FOR COOKED CHOPPED SPINACH 


Epinards Etuvés au Beurre 


[Spinach Braised in Butter—Buttered Spinach | 


Serve this deliciously buttery spinach with steaks, chops, roasts, ham, or 
sautéed liver. Use it also in any recipe calling for a bed of buttered spinach. 


For 6 people 


3 cups cooked chopped 
spinach (the preceding 
recipe), in a heavy-bot- 
tomed enameled saucepan 

4 Tb butter 

Salt and pepper to taste 


2 Tb softened butter 
A hot porcelain serving dish 


After you have followed the directions in the preced- 
ing recipe (stirring the spinach over moderately high 
heat with butter and seasonings until its moisture has 
evaporated), stir in the 4 additional tablespoons of 
butter listed here. Cover the saucepan and cook very 
slowly for 10 to 15 minutes, stirring frequently, until 
the spinach has absorbed the butter and is very tender. 
Correct seasoning. 

(*) If not served immediately, set aside uncovered. 
Reheat when needed. 


Remove from heat, fold in the additional butter, and 
turn the spinach into the hot serving dish. 





Épinards au Jambon 


[Spinach with Ham] 


Y% cup finely diced ham, 
sautéed briefly in butter 
The preceding spinach 
braised in butter 

12 croútons (triangles of 
white bread sautéed in 
clarified butter), page 199 


Sur the ham into the spinach 2 to 3 minutes before the 
end of the cooking. After arranging the spinach on its 
serving dish, place the crodétons around the edge of 


the dish. 


i eee ee 


* Epinards au Jus 


[Spinach Braised in Stock | 


SPINACH 471 


*  Épinards à la Crème 
| Spinach Braised in Cream—Creamed Spinach | 


This is an alternative to the preceding recipe for buttered spinach. 
Whether to use cream or stock for the braising depends on your judgment of 
which goes best with the rest of your menu. Creamed spinach would contrast 
well with sautéed ham, liver, brains, sweetbreads, chicken, or veal; spinach 
braised in stock would be preferable if you served any of these meats in a cream 
sauce. Spinach braised in stock or cream may also be gratinéed with cheese or 
be used as a filling for crépes as suggested in the variations following the recipe. 

For 6 people 


3 cups cooked chopped spin- After you have stirred the spinach over moderately 
ach, page 469, in a heavy- high heat with butter and seasonings to evaporate its 
bottomed enameled sauce- humidity, as directed in the recipe for cooked chopped 
pan spinach, lower heat to moderate. Sprinkle on the flour 

14 Tb flour, sifted to re- and stir for 2 minutes more to cook the flour. 
move any lumps 


1 cup brown stock, canned Remove from heat and stir in two thirds of the stock, 
beef bouillon, or whipping bouillon, or cream by spoonfuls. Bring to the simmer, 
cream cover, and cook very slowly for about 15 minutes. Stir 

Salt and pepper frequently to prevent spinach from sticking to bottom 

of pan, and add more liquid by spoonfuls if spinach 
becomes too dry. Correct seasoning. 

(*) If not to be served immediately, set aside uncov- 
ered, and film top with a tablespoon of stock or cream. 
Reheat when needed. 


1 to 2 Tb softened butter Remove spinach from heat, fold in the butter, and 
A hot porcelain serving dish turn into the serving dish. Decorate with optional egg. 
Optional: 1 or 2 sieved or 

sliced hard-boiled eggs 





VARIATIONS 
Epinards Gratinés au Fromage 
[Spinach Gratinéed with Cheese] 
Serve this gratinéed spinach with steaks or chops, roast veal or chicken, 


or sautéed liver. It also goes well with broiled fish. 
For 6 people 


472 


34 cups grated Swiss cheese 

3 cups spinach braised in 
stock (the preceding 
recipe) 

A lightly buttered baking 
dish 8 inches in diameter 
and 14 inches deep 

2 Tb fine, dry, white bread 
crumbs 


114 Tb melted butter 


CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 





Stir two thirds of the cheese into the spinach and turn 
it into the baking dish, heaping it into a slight dome. 
Mix the rest of the cheese with the bread crumbs and 
spread over the spinach. Sprinkle on the melted butter. 





About 30 minutes before serving, place in upper third 
of a preheated, 375-degree oven to heat through thor- 
oughly and brown the top lightly. 





Canapés aux Epinards 


[Spinach and Cheese Canapés] 


Serve these canapés as a hot first course or luncheon dish, or make them 


smaller than directed here and serve as cocktail appetizers. 


For 6 people 


12 slices of white bread, 34% 
by 2/2 inches and % inch 
thick 

34 cup grated Swiss cheese 

3 cups spinach braised in 
stock (the preceding mas- 
ter recipe) 

2 Tb fine, dry, white bread 
crumbs 

2 to 3 Tb melted butter 


Cut off the crusts and sauté the bread in hot butter 


and oil in a skillet until lightly browned on each side. 
Stir two thirds of the cheese into the braised spinach 
and heap 2 or 3 tablespoons on each piece of sautéed 
bread. Sprinkle with the remaining grated cheese, the 
bread crumbs, and the melted butter. 


Just before serving, run under a moderately hot 
broiler to heat through and brown lightly. 


Epinards à la Mornay, Gratinés 


[Spinach Gratinéed with Cheese Sauce] 


Serve this gratinéed spinach with roasts, steaks, or chops, or as a hot first 


course or luncheon dish. 


For 6 people 


SPINACH 


1Y% cups sauce mornay 
(béchamel with cheese), 
page 61 

A lightly buttered baking 
dish 8 inches in diameter 
and 1¥ inches deep 


3 cups spinach braised in . 


stock or in cream, page 
470-1 

Optional: % Ib. sliced 
mushrooms sautéed in 
butter, page 513 

3 Tb grated Swiss cheese 

1⁄2 Tb melted butter 


473 


Spread a third of the sauce in the bottom of the bak- 


ing dish. If you are using the optional mushrooms, 
fold them into the spinach. Heap the spinach in the 
dish over the sauce, and spoon the rest of the sauce 
over it. Sprinkle with the grated cheese and melted 
butter. | 


About 30 minutes before serving, place in upper third 
of a preheated, 375-degree oven to heat through thor- 
oughly and brown lightly on top. 


Épinards en Surprise 


[Spinach Hidden under a Giant Crépe] 


This is an amusing presentation; the spinach is heaped in a serving dish 
and a large French pancake is spread over it, hiding it completely. Serve it as 
a main course luncheon or supper dish and, if you wish, mix a cup of sautéed, 
diced ham or mushrooms into the spinach. 


For 6 people 


14 cup grated Swiss cheese 

3 cups spinach braised in 
stock or in cream, page 
47o 

A hot, lightly buttered por- 
celain serving dish about 
8 inches in diameter 

A French pancake, crêpe, 
large enough to cover the 
spinach completely, page 
191 


Just before serving, stir the cheese into the hot, braised 
spinach and heap it in the serving dish. Then cover 
with the crépe. 


474 CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 


EE aa 


PETITES CREPES D’EPINARDS 

[Spinach Pancakes | 

Spinach pancakes may be folded in quarters to garnish a roast, steaks, or 
chops. Filled as suggested in the Crépe section, pages 193 to 195, they may be 


served as a hot first course, or luncheon or supper dish. 
For about 12 crépes 6 inches in diameter 


Ingredients for 1 the recipe If you are making the crêpe batter in an electric 


for crépes, page 191 blender, you may purée the blanched spinach at the 
1 cup blanched spinach, same time. Otherwise, purée the spinach in a food 
page 468 mill and combine with the crépe batter. Let batter 


rest for 2 hours before using. Cook spinach crépes like 
ordinary crépes, according to directions following 
those for the batter. 





TIMBALE D’EPINARDS 
[Spinach Mold] 


This is a purée of spinach mixed with eggs, milk, cheese, and bread- 
crumbs, baked in a soufflé dish, unmolded, and surrounded with a sauce. Use 
the recipe for asparagus mold on page 440, substituting spinach purée, page 
469, for asparagus. Other sauces besides those with the asparagus mold recipe 
are: 

Sauce Tomate or Coulis de Tomates, tomato sauce, pages 76 to 78 

Sauce Aurore, velouté or béchamel sauce with tomato flavoring, page 62 


EPINARDS A LA BASQUAISE 


[ Gratin of Spinach and Sliced Potatoes with Anchovies | 


Serve this with steaks, roast beef, roast lamb, or with broiled fish such as 
mackerel, fresh tuna, herring, or sardines. 


For 6 people 


V2 cup grated Swiss cheese Stir the cheese into the braised spinach. 
3 cups spinach braised in 
stock, page 470 


SPINACH 


x lb. “boiling” potatoes 


A lightly buttered baking 
dish 2 inches deep and 9 
inches in diameter 

2 Tb mashed anchovies (or 
1 Tb anchovy paste) 
blended with 4 Tb sof- 
tened butter and % tsp 


pepper 


3 cup grated Swiss cheese 
mixed with 3 Tb dry 
white bread crumbs 

2 Tb melted butter 


475 


Peel the potatoes and cut them into slices 4% inch 


thick. Boil them in salted water for 5 to 6 minutes, or 
until tender. Drain. l 


Spread half of the potatoes in the bottom of the bak- 
ing dish. Cover with half of the anchovy mixture. 


‘Spread half of the spinach over the potatoes. Repeat 


with the remaining potatoes, anchovy mixture, and 
spinach. 


Spread the cheese and bread crumbs over the top of 


the spinach and pour on the melted butter. 


About 30 minutes before serving, place in upper third 


of a preheated, 375-degree oven to heat through thor- 
oughly and brown the top nicely. 


FROZEN SPINACH 


Although it cannot have the lovely taste of fresh spinach, and there is al- 
most more stem than leaf to it, frozen spinach does have its place. When it’s 


given this preliminary treatment, you may use it in any of the preceding 


recipes. If you are cooking more than two packages at once, use two saucepans; 


when too much is in one saucepan, the liquid will not evaporate quickly 


enough and the spinach will overcook. 


For each 10-ounce package 
of frozen spinach: 

A heavy, stainless steel chop- 
ping knife 


1/2 Tb butter 
A heavy-bottomed, enam- 


Whether the frozen spinach is whole, chopped, or 


puréed, it will cook most successfully if you unwrap 
and defrost it just enough so you can slice it by bear- 
ing down on the block with a heavy knife. If the 
spinach is already chopped or puréed, cut the slices 
roughly into half-inch pieces. If the spinach is whole, 
chop the slices into small bits. 


Melt the butter in the saucepan or skillet, then stir in 
the chopped spinach and seasonings. Cover and cook 


476 CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 


eled saucepan or skillet very slowly for a minute or two, until the spinach has 
1⁄4 tsp salt thawed and released its juices. Uncover, raise heat, 
Pinch of pepper and stir for 2 to 3 minutes until all moisture has 
Small pinch of nutmeg evaporated. 





This may now be substituted for the cooked chopped 
spinach on page 469, and used in any of the recipes 
calling for it or ‘blanched spinach. 





CARROTS, ONIONS, AND TURNIPS 
Carottes, Oignons, et Navets 


Carrots, onions, and turnips à la française are all cooked in substantially 
the same manner, so we have grouped them together. 


CARROTS 
Carottes 


Carrots develop their maximum flavor if they are cooked in a covered 
saucepan with a small amount of liquid, butter, and seasonings until the liquid 
has evaporated and the carrots are beginning to sauté in the butter. 


SERVING SUGGESTIONS 


Buttered or glazed carrots go well with all kinds of roasts, and combine 
with other vegetables to make many of the classic garnitures which may sur- 
round a meat platter. One of the more elaborate of these is à la bouquetiére 
which includes glazed carrots and turnips, diced green beans, peas, cauliflower 
bouquets, and potato balls sautéed in butter. Creamed carrots are particularly 
good with veal and chicken. 


AMOUNT TO BUY 


One pound of carrots minus their tops will serve 3 or 4 people. A pound 
of raw carrots, sliced, diced, or quartered, makes about 314 cups. 


PREPARATION FOR COOKING 
Trim off the stems and peel the carrots with a vegetable peeler. Depend- 


ing on their size and the effect you wish, slice them horizontally, or halve or 
quarter them lengthwise, then cut the lengths into 2-inch pieces. These pieces 


CARROTS 477 


may, if you wish, be trimmed into the form of long garlic cloves; in French 
this is termed tourner en gousses or en olives. 

(For tough old carrots only: If you happen to have end-of-season carrots, 
quarter them lengthwise, then cut out and remove the woody central section, 
and use only the reddish outer portion which French recipes call rouge de 
carotte. Then before proceeding with any of the following recipes, blanch the 
carrots by boiling for 5 to 8 minutes in salted water.) 


* CAROTTES ETUVEES AU BEURRE 
[Carrots Braised in Butter] 


This is the basic recipe for cooked carrots; they may be served with a 
sprinkling of parsley, simmered in cream, mixed with other vegetables, or 
puréed. 

For 6 people 


A heavy-bottomed, 2-quart, In the saucepan, bring the carrots to the boil with the 
enameled saucepan sugar, water, butter, and salt. Cover and boil slowly 
122 lbs. carrots, peeled, and for 30 to 40 minutes or until the carrots are tender and 
sliced or quartered (about the liquid has evaporated. Correct seasoning. 
51⁄2 cups) (*) If they are not to be served at once, set aside un- 
1 Tb granulated sugar (to covered and reheat when needed. 
develop their flavor) 
14 cups water 
14 Tb butter 
12 tsp salt 
Pinch of pepper 





VARIATIONS 
Carottes aux Fines Herbes 
[Braised Carrots with Herbs} 


1% lbs. carrots braised in Just before serving and off heat, toss the carrots with 
butter the butter and herbs. Turn into a hot vegetable dish. 
2 Tb softened butter 
2 Tb minced parsley, cher- 
vil and chives, or parsley 
only 
A hot vegetable dish 


478 


CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 


ec mM 


Carottes a la Crème 


[Creamed Carrots | 


1 to 1% cups whipping 
cream 
1% lbs. carrots braised in 


butter, page 477 
Salt and pepper 


2 Tb softened butter 

2 Tb minced parsley, cher- 
vil and chives, or parsley 
only 

A hot vegetable dish 


Bring the cream to a boil in a saucepan and pour in 
enough to cover the carrots. Boil slowly, uncovered, 
for 15 to 20 minutes or until the cream has been al- 
most entirely absorbed by the carrots. Correct season- 


ing. 


Just before serving and off heat, gently toss the butter 
and’ herbs into the carrots. Turn into a hot vegetable 


dish. 





Carottes a la Forestiére 


[Braised Carrots with Artichoke Bottoms and Mushrooms | 


14 lb. quartered fresh mush- 
rooms 

1 Tb oil 

172 Tb butter 

Salt and pepper 


2 Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 

3 or 4 cooked fresh artichoke 
bottoms cut into quarters, 
page 431 (or cooked fro- 
zen artichoke hearts, page 
434) 

12 lbs. carrots braised in 
butter, page 477 


13 cup good brown stock or 
canned beef bouillon 
Salt and pepper 


In a skillet, sauté the mushrooms in hot oil and butter 
for 4 to 5 minutes until very lightly browned. Season 
with salt and pepper. 


Stir the shallots or onions and the cooked fresh arti- 
choke bottoms into the mushrooms and toss for 2 to 3 
minutes over moderately high heat. (If you are using 
frozen artichoke hearts, cook them separately, then 
add them directly to the carrots.) Fold or toss the 
artichoke hearts and mushrooms into the carrots. 


Pour the stock or bouillon into the vegetables. Cover 
and boil slowly for 4 to 5 minutes until the stock has 
almost completely evaporated. Correct seasoning. 


CARROTS 479 


A hot vegetable dish Turn into a hot vegetable dish and sprinkle with the 
2 Tb minced parsley, cher- herbs. 

vil, and chives, or parsley 

only 


CAROTTES GLACEES 
[Glazed Carrots] 


Glazed carrots receive the same type of cooking process as braised carrots; 
the only difference is that they are cooked in stock instead of water, and more 
butter and sugar are used so that the liquid reduces to a syrupy glaze in the 
bottom of the pan. Just before serving, the carrots are rolled about in the syrup 
so each piece is shiny with glaze. 

For 6 people 


122 lbs. carrots, peeled, Boil the carrots slowly in the covered saucepan with 
quartered and cut into 2- the stock or bouillon, sugar, pepper, and butter for 30 
inch lengths (572 cups) to 40 minutes until the carrots are tender and the 

A 2/-quart, heavy-bot- liquid has reduced to a syrupy glaze. Correct season- 
tomed, enameled sauce- ing. 
pan with cover 

1¥, cups good brown stock 
or canned beef bouillon 

2 Tb granulated sugar 


Pinch of pepper 

6 Tb butter 

Salt and pepper 

A hot vegetable dish Reheat just before serving and roll the carrots gently 

2 Tb very finely minced in the pan to coat them with syrup. Turn into a hot 
parsley vegetable dish or arrange them around your roast, and 


sprinkle with parsley. 





CAROTTES VICHY 

[Carrots Vichy | 

The recipe for carrots Vichy is exactly the same as that for the preceding 
glazed carrots except that in place of stock you would use bottled Vichy water 
(or plain bottled water with a pinch of soda). The assumption is that pure 
noncalcareous bottled water produces a more delicate carrot. 


480 


CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 


I 


CAROTTES A LA CONCIERGE 


[Casserole of Creamed Carrots with Onions and Garlic] 


This hearty dish of carrots goes nicely with red meats, pork, sausages, 
or plain roast chicken. It can also constitute a meatless main-course dish. 


For 6 people 


112 lbs. carrots, peeled and 
cut into 14-inch slices (51⁄2 
cups) 

Y lb. (1% cups) sliced on- 
ions 

4 Tb olive oil 

A 2%%-quart, heavy-bot- 
tomed, enameled sauce- 
pan with cover 


A large clove mashed garlic 


x Tb flour 


34 cup boiling brown stock 
or canned beef bouillon 

34 cup boiling milk 

Salt and pepper to taste 

1 tsp granulated sugar 

Pinch of nutmeg 


2 egg yolks blended with 4 
Tb whipping cream 

A rubber spatula 

A hot vegetable dish 

2 Tb minced parsley 


` 





Cook the carrots, onions, and olive oil slowly in the 
covered saucepan, tossing occasionally, for about 30 
minutes. The vegetables should be tender but not 
browned. 


Add the garlic for the last 5 minutes of cooking. 


Toss the vegetables with the flour and cook 3 minutes 


more. 


Off heat, fold in the boiling stock or bouillon, then 
the milk, and finally the seasonings. Simmer uncov- 
ered for about 20 minutes or until the liquid has re 
duced to about a third of its volume and has thick- 
ened into a light cream. Correct seasoning. 


Off heat and just before serving, use the spatula to 


fold in the egg yolks and cream. Shake and swirl 
saucepan over low heat until the egg yolks have 
thickened but be careful not to bring them near the 
simmer or they may coagulate. Turn into a hot vege- 
table dish and sprinkle with parsley. 


ONIONS : 


Oignons 


It is hard to imagine a civilization without onions; in one form-or another 
their flavor blends into almost everything in the meal except the dessert. We 


ONIONS 481 


shall concentrate here on the small, whole, cooked, white onions which are 
so often called for as a vegetable garnish. When they are used in stews and 
fricassees it is generally advisable that they be cooked separately so you are 
sure they will be tender and retain their shape. 


AMOUNT TO BUY 


One pound of small onions will serve 3 or 4 people if they constitute a 
principal vegetable dish. If they are used as a garnish or in a mixture with 
other vegetables, count on 3 or 4 small onions per person. 


PREPARATION FOR COOKING 


The quickest, neatest, and least tearful way to peel small white onions is 
to drop them into a saucepan of rapidly boiling water and leave them for 5 to 
10 seconds, just long enough for their skins to loosen. Drain. Run cold water 
over them. Trim off the top and bottom portions, removing only a little bit so 
as not to disturb the onion layers. Then slip off the outside skin and the first 
onion layer with your fingers. Pierce a cross in the root ends so that the onions 
will cook evenly without bursting. 

If the onions are old and very strongly flavored, or if for digestive reasons 
you wish to make them milder, drop them into boiling, salted water and boil 
slowly for 5 minutes before proceeding with a recipe. 

To remove onion flavor from your hands, wash them in cold water, rub 
them with salt, rinse again in cold water, then wash in soap and warm water. 





x OIGNONS GLACES A BLANC 
[White-braised Onions—Glazed Onions] 


White-braised onions may be served as they are, or they may be sim- 
mered for a moment in a good cream sauce. Use them also as a garnish for 


fricassees or blanquettes. 


For 18 to 24 peeled white Place the onions in the saucepan or skillet with the 
onions about 1 inch in di- liquid, butter, seasonings, and herb bouquet. Cover 
ameter: and simmer very slowly, rolling the onions in the 

A heavy-bottomed, enam- saucepan from time to time, for 40 to 50 minutes. The 
eled saucepan or skillet onions should not color, and should be perfectly 


482 CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 


which will just hold the tender yet retain their shape. If all the liquid evapo- 

onions in one layer rates during the cooking, add more by spoonfuls as 
1, cup white stock, canned necessary. Remove herb bouquet. 

chicken broth, dry white (*) May be cooked several hours in advance, reheated, 


wine, or water and served as in the following suggestions. 
2 Tb butter 
Salt and pepper to taste 
A small herb bouquet: 2 a 


parsley sprigs, Vs tsp 
thyme, and 14 bay leaf 
tied in cheesecloth 





TO SERVE 
Petits Oignons Persillés 
[Parslied Onions | 


These go particularly well with chicken, veal, or fish in cream sauce. 


2 Tb softened butter Just before serving the onions, correct seasoning. Off 
A warm vegetable dish heat, roll them with the softened butter. Turn into a 
2 Tb minced parsley warm vegetable dish and sprinkle with parsley. 


Petits Oignons a la Créme 


[Creamed Onions] 


Serve creamed onions with roast veal, chicken, or turkey, chops, steaks, 
or hamburgers, sautéed veal, chicken, or liver. 
(For 2 lbs. of white-braised onions, serving 6 people.) 


2 cups sauce crème (bécha- Fold the cream sauce into the braised onions and 
mel with cream), page simmer for 5 minutes. Correct seasoning. Off heat, 
59 fold in the butter. Turn into a hot vegetable dish and 

Salt and pepper sprinkle with parsley. 

1 to 2 Tb softened butter 

2 Tb minced parsley 

A hot vegetable dish J 


ONIONS 


483 





x OIGNONS GLACES À BRUN 


[Brown-braised Onions] 


Brown-braised onions are used whenever you wish a brown effect, such 
as in brown fricassees like cog au vin and boeuf bourguignon, or in a mixture 


with other vegetables. 


For 18 to 24 peeled white 
onions about 1 inch in di- 
ameter: 

114 Tb butter 

14 Tb oil 

A 9- to 10-inch enameled 
skillet 


2 cup of brown stock, 
canned beef bouillon, dry 
white wine, red wine, or 
water 

Salt and pepper to taste 

A medium herb bouquet: 4 
parsley sprigs, 1 bay leaf, 
and 1⁄4 tsp thyme tied in 
cheesecloth 


When the butter and oil are bubbling in the skillet, 


add the onions and sauté over moderate heat for about 
10 minutes, rolling the onions about so they will 
brown as evenly as possible. Be careful not to break 
their skins. You cannot expect to brown them uni- 
formly. 


Then either braise them as follows: 

Pour in the liquid, season to taste, and add the herb 
bouquet. Cover and simmer slowly for 40 to 50 min- 
utes until the onions are perfectly tender but retain 
their shape, and the liquid has evaporated. Remove 
herb bouquet. Serve them as they are, or follow one 
of the suggestions at the end of the recipe. 


Or bake them as follows: 

Transfer the onions and their sautéing fat to a shallow 
baking dish or casserole just large enough to hold 
them in one layer. Set uncovered in upper third of a 
preheated 350-degree oven for 40 to 50 minutes, turn- 
ing them over once or twice. They should be very 
tender, retain their shape, and be a nice golden brown. 
Remove herb bouquet. Serve them as they are or ac- 
cording to one of the following suggestions. 


(*) The onions may be cooked hours in advance, and 
reheated before serving. 


484 CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 


ne 


TO SERVE 
Petits Oignons Persillés 


[Parslied Onions] 


1 to 2 Tb softened butter Roll the hot oniong gently in the butter. Turn into a 
A hot vegetable dish hot vegetable dish or place them around your roast, 
1 Tb minced parsley and sprinkle with parsley. 





Petits Oignons en Garniture 
[Vegetable Mixtures | 


Braised onions go nicely mixed with other vegetables 
such as glazed carrots, sautéed mushrooms, artichoke 
hearts, and sautéed potatoes. 


CANNED ONIONS 


All the brands of canned “small boiled onions” we have tried have tasted, 
to us, rather unpleasantly sweetish and overacidulated; they also need more 
cooking to make them tender. However they are so useful in an emergency 
that we offer the following treatment which improves them considerably. 


For each No. 2 can of small Drain the onions. Drop them into boiling water, bring 
boiled onions (124 lbs. or back to the boil and boil 1 minute. Drain. This re- 
21/2 cups): moves some of the canned taste. Then simmer them 

2 Tb butter slowly in a covered saucepan for 10 to 15 minutes with 

Y4 cup stock, canned beef the butter, stock, seasonings, and herb bouquet until 


bouillon, or mushroom they are very tender and the liquid has evaporated. 
broth 


Salt and pepper to taste 

A small herb bouquet: 2 
parsley sprigs, 3 bay leaf, 
and 1⁄4 tsp thyme tied in 
cheesecloth 


ONIONS 


485 





SOUBISE 


[Braised Rice and Onions] < 


This is a savory mixture of sliced onions, rice, and butter cooked slowly 
together until they melt into a purée. The natural moisture of the onions is 
sufficient to cook the rice; no other liquid is needed. Soubise is particularly 
good with veal or chicken, or boiled leg of lamb à l'anglaise. It may be turned 
into a sauce soubise by puréeing it with a sauce béchamel or velouté and en- 


riching it with cream. 


For 6 people 


Y cup rice 
4 quarts rapidly boiling wa- 
ter 


1% Tb salt 


4 Tb butter 

A 3-quart, fireproof casse- 
role 

2 lbs. (6 to 7 cups) thinly 
sliced yellow onions 

Y, tsp salt 

V8 tsp pepper 

Salt and pepper 


14 cup whipping cream 

14 cup grated Swiss cheese 
2 Tb softened butter 

A hot vegetable dish 

1 Tb minced parsley 


Preheat oven to 300 degrees. 


Drop the rice into the boiling salted water and boil 
for 5 minutes exactly. Drain immediately. 


When the butter is foaming in the casserole, stir in the 
onions. As soon as they are well coated with butter, 
stir in the rice and seasonings. Cover and cook very 
slowly in the 300-degree oven for about 1 hour, stirring 
occasionally. The rice and onions should become very 
tender and will usually turn a light golden yellow. 
Correct seasoning. 

(*) May be cooked several hours in advance and re- 
heated later. 


Just before serving, stir in the cream and cheese, and 


then the butter. Taste again for seasoning. Turn into 
a hot vegetable dish and sprinkle with parsley. 





TURNIPS 
Navets 


The turnip is a wonderful vegetable when given the treatment required 
to bring out its delicious qualities. It wants and needs to absorb butter or meat 


486 CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 


fats, which is why turnips are particularly succulent when finished off in a 
stew or a braised dish, or in the juices of roasting meat. In France rutabagas, 
or yellow turnips, are practically unheard of as food for humans, but they may 
be used interchangeably with white turnips.. 


SERVING SUGGESTIONS 


The full flavor of turnips goes well with pork, sausages, ham, goose, and 


duck. 


AMOUNT TO BUY 


One pound of turnips without tops will serve 3 or 4 people. A pound 
of raw sliced or quartered turnips measures about 31⁄4 cups. 


PREPARATION FOR COOKING 


Small, tender, early-crop turnips, usually sold in bunches with their tops 
attached, are trimmed, peeled, and set to cook with no preliminary blanching. 
The older and stronger winter turnips and rutabagas, always sold without 
tops, are peeled fairly deeply with a knife, and are cut into slices or quarters. 
Quarters may be trimmed into neat ovals the shape of large garlic cloves, called 


in French tourner en gousses or en olives. Any turnips which are woody or 
fibrous should be discarded. 


PRELIMINARY BLANCHING 


After peeling and cutting winter turnips or rutabagas, place them in a 
saucepan with salted water to cover them by 2 inches, bring to the boil and 
boil for 3 to 5 minutes or until they are partially tender. Drain them. This re- 
moves some of their overly strong taste. The following recipes are based on 
winter turnips; omit the blanching step if your turnips are young and tender. 





x NAVETS A L’ETUVEE 


[Turnips Braised in Butter | 


t 


Braised turnips may be served by themselves or combined with other 
vegetables. Their final cooking may be done around a roast or in a braised 
dish or a fricassee. | p 


For 6 people 


TURNIPS 


2 Ibs. turnips, peeled and 
quartered (7 to 8 cups) 

A heavy-bottomed, 3-quart, 
enameled saucepan 

2 Tb butter 

I to 144 cups stock, canned 
beef or chicken bouillon, 
or water — 

Salt and pepper to taste 


TO SERVE 
Navets Persillés 
[Parslied Turnips] 


2 Tb softened butter 

Optional: Drops of lemon 
juice to taste 

2 Tb minced parsley 

A hot vegetable dish 


487 


Blanch the turnips for 3 to 5 minutes in boiling salted 
water to cover. Drain, and place them in the saucepan 
with the butter and enough liquid barely to cover 
them. Season lightly. Cover and boil slowly for 20 to 
30 minutes or until they are tender but retain their 
shape. If the liquid has not evaporated, uncover and 
boil it off. Correct seasoning. 

(*) May be cooked several hours in advance of serv- 


ing. 


Just before serving, toss the hot turnips gently with 


the butter, optional lemon juice, and parsley. Turn 
into the vegetable dish. 





VARIATION 


Purée de Navets Parmentier 


{Turnip and Potato Purée] 


Serve this purée with roast turkey, duck, goose, ham, pork, or pork chops 


or sausages. 


For 6 people 


7 to 8 cups turnips braised 
in butter (the preceding 
master recipe) 

2 cups warm mashed pota- 
toes 

4 Tb softened butter 

Salt and pepper 

A hot vegetable dish 

2 Tb minced parsley 


Purée the turnips and beat them into the mashed 


potatoes. Beat the purée in a saucepan over moderate 
heat to evaporate moisture and to heat thoroughly. 
Off heat and just before serving, beat in the butter. 
Season to taste with salt and pepper. Turn into a hot 
vegetable dish and sprinkle with parsley. 


488 


CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 





* NAVETS GLACES À BRUN 


[Glazed Turnips | 


Glazed turnips are used to garnish a roast, or may be served as a separate 
vegetable. It is essentially the same procedure as that for braised turnips, except 
they are browned before being simmered, and are cooked with sugar and more 
butter to reduce the liquid to a glaze. 


For 6 people 


2 lbs. turnips, peeled and 
quartered (7 to 8 cups) 


A 10- to 12-inch enameled 
skillet 

2 Tb butter and 2 Tb oil, or 
4 Tb rendered fresh pork 
or goose fat 

1 to 114 cups stock or canned 
beef bouillon 

2 Tb butter 

3 Tb granulated sugar 


A hot vegetable dish 
a Tb very finely minced 
parsley 


Blanch the turnips for 3 to 5 minutes in boiling salted 


water to cover. Drain, and dry them in a towel. 


Sauté the turnips in hot butter and oil, or in fat, for 


3 to 4 minutes to brown them lightly. Pour in enough 
stock or bouillon barely to cover them. Add the butter 
and sugar. Cover and boil slowly for 20 to 30 minutes 
or until the turnips are tender but retain their shape. 
Correct seasoning. 


(*) When cooked in advance, set aside uncovered. Be- 
fore serving, add a tablespoon of water, if necessary, 
and reheat in covered saucepan. 


If the liquid has not reduced to a syrupy glaze, un- 


cover and boil it down rapidly. Gently toss the turnips 
to coat them with the glaze. Turn them into a hot 
vegetable dish or heap them around your roast, and 
sprinkle with parsley. 





NAVETS A LA CHAMPENOISE 


[Turnip Casserole] 


People who disdain the turnip almost invariably revise their opinion after 
tasting this dish. It goes admirably with roast pork, beef, duck, goose, turkey, 
ham, or grilled sausages. (Yellow turnips or rutabagas do well here.) 


For 6 to 8 people 


2/2 lbs. turnips, peeled and 
cut into quarters (8 to 9 


cups) 





Blanch the turnips for 3 to 5 minutes in boiling salted 
water to cover. Drain. 


TURNIPS 


A 14-lb. chunk of bacon 


A 3-quart, fireproof casse- 
role about 2 inches deep 

1 Tb butter 

73 cup finely diced onions 


1 Tb flour 


34 cup stock or canned beef 
bouillon 

14 tsp sugar 

Salt and pepper 

1⁄4 tsp sage 


2 Tb minced parsley 


489 


Remove the rind and cut the bacon into 14-inch dice, 


making about % cup. Simmer for 10 minutes in a 
quart of water. Drain. 


Sauté the bacon in the butter for several minutes un- 


til very lightly browned. Stir in the onions, cover, and 


_ cook slowly for 5 minutes without browning the on- 


ions. 


Blend in the flour and cook slowly for 2 minutes. 


Off heat, blend in the stock or bouillon, seasonings to 


taste, and the sage. Simmer for a moment, then fold 
in the turnips. Cover and simmer slowly for 20 to 30 
minutes or until the turnips are tender. If sauce is too 
liquid, uncover and boil slowly for several minutes 
until it has reduced and thickened. Correct seasoning. 
(*) May be cooked several hours in advance and re- 
heated later. 


Sprinkle with parsley and serve. 


BRAISED VEGETABLES 
Légumes Braisées 
LETTUCE, CELERY, ENDIVE, AND LEEKS 
Laitues, Céleris, Endives, et Porreaux 


The braising of lettuce, celery, endive, or leeks requires a relatively long, 
slow cooking, usually of an hour and a half or more, before the desired inter- 
change of flavors between the vegetable and its braising medium can take 
place. It is this culinary osmosis which gives them the delicious flavor they 
should always have. Any one of these vegetables may be braised, set aside un- 
covered to cool, then covered and reheated several hours or even a day later. 





LAITUES BRAISEES 
[Braised Lettuce] 


Plain boiled lettuce is dreadfully uninteresting, but lettuce braised slowly 
in stock and herbs is a marvelous dish. It goes well with roast veal, roast beef, 


490 


CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 


and roast chicken. It can also be combined with other vegetables such as 
grilled tomatoes and sautéed potatoes to garnish a meat platter. 

Boston lettuce, chicory, and escarole are all equally good for braising. 
Count on one 6- to 8-inch head per person. 


For 6 people 


6 heads of lettuce, 6 to 8 
inches in diameter 


A large kettle containing 7 
to § quarts of boiling wa- 
ter 

1/2 tsp salt per quart of wa- 
ter 

Salt and pepper 


6 thick slices of bacon 
A 4-inch square of bacon 
rind 


_ A 12-inch, fireproof, covered 
casserole 

Y, cup sliced onions 

14 cup sliced carrots 

3 Tb butter 


About 2 cups good beef 
stock or canned beef 
bouillon, plus, if you wish, 
2 cup dry white wine or 
dry white vermouth 

A medium herb bouquet: 
4 parsley sprigs, 1⁄4 tsp 


Trim the stems of the lettuce and remove wilted 
leaves. Two at a time, hold each head by its stem and 
plunge up and down gently in cold water to remove 
all traces of sand. 


Plunge three of the heads in the boiling salted water. 


Bring rapidly back to the boil and boil slowly, un- 
covered, for 3 to 5 minutes until the heads have wilted. 
Remove and plunge for 2 to 3 minutes in a large 
basin of cold water. Repeat with the remaining lettuce. 
A head at a time, squeeze gently but firmly in both 
hands to eliminate as much water as you can. Slice 
each head in half lengthwise. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper. Fold in half crosswise and shape with your 
hands to make fat triangles. 


Preheat oven to 350 degrees. 


Simmer the bacon and rind in a quart of water for 10 
minutes. Drain, rinse in cold water, and dry. 


In the casserole cook the onions and carrots slowly 
with the butter until tender but not browned. Push 
them to the sides of the casserole and arrange the let- 
tuce triangles in the bottom, closely pressed against 
each other. Spread part of the vegetables over the let- 
tuce, then the bacon and bacon rind. 


Pour in enough liquid barely to cover the lettuce. Add 
the herb bouquet. Bring to the simmer on top of the 
stove. Place the buttered paper over the lettuce, cover 
the casserole, and set in lower third of preheated oven. 
Regulate heat so lettuce simmers slowly for 114 hours. 


LETTUCE AND CELERY 


thyme, and 1⁄4 bay leaf 
tied in cheesecloth 
A round of buttered paper 


A lightly buttered serving 
dish 


2 Tb butter 
2 to 3 Tb minced parsley 


491 


Remove the lettuce to the serving dish and keep it 


warm. Quickly boil down the braising liquid until it 


has reduced to a syrup (about ! cup). 


Off heat, swirl the butter into the sauce, then strain it 
over the lettuce, sprinkle with parsley and serve. 

(*) If done in advance, do not sauce the lettuce until 
the last moment. Boil down the braising liquid and 
strain it into a saucepan. Reheat the lettuce by cover- 
ing with buttered foil and setting it for about 15 
minutes in a 350-degree oven. Just before serving, 
butter the sauce and pour it over the lettuce. 


CELERIS BRAISES 


[Braised Celery] 


Except for slight differences at the beginning and at the end, celery is 


braised in the same way as lettuce, so we shall not give it a full recipe. Serve 
braised celery with chops, steaks, roast beef, turkey, goose, duck, pork, or lamb. 


For 6 people 


6 bunches of tender, practi- 
cally stringless celery 
about 2 inches in diameter 

A kettle containing 7 to 8 
quarts boiling water 

112 tsp salt per quart of wa- 
ter 

White string 


The same ingredients as for 
braised lettuce (preceding 
recipe) 

A lightly buttered baking or 
serving dish 


Trim the roots, and cut off the tops to make each 
celery bunch 6 to 7 inches long. Wash thoroughly, 
using warm water if necessary: spread the stalks apart 
gently while running water all the way down to the 
root to remove all grit. Drop into the boiling, salted 
water and boil slowly for 15 minutes. Drain. Plunge 
for 2 to 3 minutes in a basin of cold water. Drain, and 
gently extract as much water as possible by pressing 
each bunch in a towel. Tie each with 2 or 3 loops of 
white string to keep the stalks in place while braising. 


Following the method for the preceding braised let- 


tuce, arrange the celery in a casserole or baking dish 
large enough to hold it in one layer. Cover with 
blanched bacon strips and cooked vegetables. Add the 
wine and enough stock just to cover the celery. Season 


492 CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 


lightly and add the herb bouquet. Cover, bring to the 
simmer, and bake for 1}, hours in a 350-degree oven. 
Then uncover the casserole, raise oven heat to 400 de- 
grees, and bake 30 minutes more, basting 2 or 3 times, 
until the celery has browned lightly. Drain the celery, 
remove strings, cut bunches in half lengthwise, and 
arrange in dish. Cover and keep warm if to be served 
immediately. ` 


1 Tb arrowroot (or po- Strain the braising liquid into a saucepan and boil it 
tato starch or cornstarch) down rapidly until it has reduced to 1 cup. Off heat, 
blended with 2 Tb Ma- beatin the starch mixture. Simmer for 3 to 4 minutes. 

deira, port, stock, or bouil- Correct seasoning. 


lon 
2 Tb softened butter Off heat and just before serving, beat the butter into 
2 Tb minced parsley the sauce. Pour it over the hot celery and sprinkle 
with parsley. 
(*) May be cooked ahead; see preceding recipe for 
braised lettuce. 
VARIATION 


Cold Braised Celery 


Degrease the braising liquid thoroughly before you reduce it. Omit the 
starch and the enrichment butter. 





CÉLERI-RAVE BRAISÉ 
[ Braised Celeriac—Celery Root] 


Celeriac, a delicious winter vegetable, is not nearly as common in Ameri- 
can markets as it should be. Besides braising it in stock as in the following 
recipe, you may treat it exactly like the turnips on page 486, cooking it slowly 
in a small amount of liquid, butter, and seasonings, and serving it with butter 
and parsley, or puréed with mashed potatoes. Celeriac may accompany roast 
goose, duck, pork, ham, or turkey. 

For 6 people 





2 Ibs. celeriac Peel the celeriac and cut it into slices 14 inch thick; 
you will have 7 to 8 cups. Drop it into a saucepan 


CELERY ROOT 


A ¥%-lb chunk of bacon, rind 


removed 


24 cup minced onions 

1 Tb butter 

A 3-quart, fireproof casse- 
role 

1 to 114 cups brown stock or 
canned beef bouillon 

Optional: 14 cup dry white 
wine or dry white ver- 
mouth in place of 12 cup 
stock 

Salt and pepper 


A round of buttered alumi- 
num foil 

A bulb baster 

2 Tb minced parsley 


493 


with boiling salted water to cover, and boil slowly 
for 5 minutes. Drain. 


Preheat oven to 350 degrees. 


Cut the bacon into 14-inch dice; you will have about 
74 cup. Simmer 10 minutes in a quart of water. Drain. 


Cook the onions, and bacon in butter slowly in the 


casserole for 10 minutes without browning. Arrange 
the celeriac in the casserole and spread the onions and 
bacon over it. Pour in enough liquid barely to cover 
the celeriac. Season lightly. 


Bring to the simmer on top of the stove. Cover 
loosely with the foil. Set in upper third of preheated 
oven and bake for about 1 hour, basting 2 or 3 times 
with a bulb baster. The celeriac is done when it is 
very tender, has browned lightly, and the liquid has 
almost evaporated. Serve sprinkled with parsley. 





x ENDIVES A LA FLAMANDE 
[Braised Belgian Endive] 


It is too bad Belgian endive is so expensive in this country, as it is one of 


the better winter vegetables. The plain butter-braise is, in our opinion, the 
most delicious way of cooking endive. It emerges a beautiful light golden color 
and its characteristic flavor is enhanced by its slow absorption of the butter. 


Endive goes particularly well with veal. 


For 6 people 


12 firm, medium-sized en- 
dives with tightly closed 
leaves 


Preheat oven to 325 degrees. 


Trim the base of the endives. Discard any withered 


leaves. Wash one by one rapidly under running cold 
water. Drain. 


494 


5 Tb butter 

A 244 to 3-quart enameled 
casserole 

4 tsp salt 

1 Tb lemon juice 

l4 cup water 


A round of buttered paper 
EITHER: 

2 Tb minced parsley 

A hot vegetable dish 
OR: 

A shallow baking dish 

2 Tb melted butter 

2 Tb minced parsley 


CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 


Smear 114 tablespoons butter in the casserole. Lay the 
endives in it in two layers. Sprinkle each layer with 
salt and lemon juice, and dot with butter. Pour in the 
water. Cover and boil slowly for 10 minutes. Uncover 
and boil rapidly for about 10 minutes or until liquid 
is reduced to 2 or 3 tablespoons. 


Lay the paper over the endives, cover the casserole, 
and bake in middle level of preheated oven for 1 hour. 
Remove casserole cover but leave paper in place, and 
bake 30 minutes more or until endives are a nice 
golden yellow. Either arrange the endives in a hot 
vegetable dish or around your roast, and sprinkle with 
parsley, or, for a more golden effect, arrange them in 
a baking dish, baste with melted butter, and brown 
briefly under the broiler. Sprinkle with parsley just 
before serving. 





VARIATION 


Endives Gratinées 


[Endives Gratinéed with Cheese | 


Butter-braised endives are also good when sauced and browned under 


the broiler. For a main-course dish, wrap each endive in a thin slice of boiled 
ham before saucing. See also the quiche aux endives on page 152, and the 
gratin d'endives on page 156. 


For 6 people 


2 cups sauce créme or 
sauce mornay (béchamel 
with cream, page 59, or 
with-cheese, page 61) 

A shallow, lightly buttered 
baking dish 

12 endives butter-braised us 
in the preceding recipe 

2 to 3 Tb grated Swiss 
cheese 

1 Tb butter cut into pea- 
sized dots 


Spread a third of the sauce in the baking dish. Ar- 


range the braised endives over it, and pour the rest 
of the sauce over them. Sprinkle with cheese and dot 
with butter. 


ENDIVE AND LEEKS 


495 


Shortly before serving, set under a moderately hot 
broiler to reheat thoroughly and brown the cheese 
lightly. r. 





x POIREAUX BRAISÉS AU BEURRE 


[Braised Leeks] 


Braised leeks are a fine accompaniment to roast beef, steaks, or turkey. 


For 6 people 


12 fine fresh leeks about 114 
inches in diameter 

A covered, fireproof casse- 
role or baking dish, square 
or oval, and long enough 
to hold the trimmed leeks 

3 to 4 cups water 

6 Tb butter 

Y, Tb salt 


A shallow, fireproof baking 
and serving dish 


Aluminum foil 
2 to 3 Tb chopped parsley 


Trim off the roots, remove any withered leaves, and 
slit the green part of the leeks lengthwise two ways. 
Wash thoroughly under running water, spreading 
leaves apart. Cut off a portion of the green tops to 
leave the leeks about 7 inches long. Lay the leeks in 
the casserole, making 2 or 3 layers. Pour in enough 
water to come two thirds the way up the layers of 
leeks. Add the butter and salt. 


Set over high heat and bring to the boil. Partially 
cover, leaving a 14¢-inch space to allow steam to es- 
cape, and maintain liquid at a fairly fast boil. As 
leeks soften, water will just cover them. In 30 to 4o 
minutes, the white part of the leeks should be tender 
when pierced with a knife, and the liquid should have 
almost evaporated. 


Transfer the leeks to the baking dish, and pour the 
remaining cooking juices over them. 


Half an hour before serving, cover loosely with 
aluminum foil and set in the middle level of a pre- 
heated, 325-degree oven for 20 to 30 minutes or until 
the leeks have taken on a light golden color. Sprinkle 
with parsley and serve. 

(*) After their baking, the leeks may be set aside un- 
covered, and reheated later. 


496 CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 





VARIATIONS 


Poireaux Gratinés au Fromage 


[Leeks Browned with Cheese] 


The preceding braised leeks After the braised leeks have browned lightly in the 

V2 cup grated Swiss, or oven, sprinkle them with the cheese or cheese and 
Swiss and Parmesan bread crumbs. Pour the butter over them. Run for 2 
cheese, or mixture of to 3 minutes under a moderately hot broiler to brown 
cheese and bread crumbs the cheese lightly. 

3 Tb melted butter 





Poireaux à la Mornay, Gratinés 
[Leeks Browned with Cheese Sauce] 


The braised leeks in the pre- After the braised leeks have browned very lightly in 
ceding master recipe the oven, pour the sauce mornay over them, sprinkle 

2⁄2 cups sauce mornay on the cheese, dot with the butter. Run under a 
béchamel with cheese), moderately hot broiler for 2 to 3 minutes to brown 
page 61 the top of the sauce lightly. 

V4 cup grated Swiss cheese 

1 Tb butter cut into pea- 
sized dots 





RED CABBAGE AND SAUERKRAUT 
Chou Rouge et Choucroute 


Both braised red cabbage and braised sauerkraut need 4 to 5 hours of 
slow cooking for them to develop their full flavor. Once they have been set 
in the oven they need little or no attention, and are even better when cooked 
in advance and reheated the next day. 


a ee ee eee 
CHOU ROUGE A LA LIMOUSINE 
[Braised Red Cabbage with Red Wine and Chestnuts] 


Red cabbage braised in this fashion is a fine dish to serve with roast gooše, 
duck, pork, venison, or wild boar. Or you may cook the meat in the casserole 


RED CABBAGE 


497 


with the cabbage, see the recipe for duck on page 280. All red vegetables must 
cook with something acid to retain their color; thus the tart apples and red 


wine in the following recipe. 


For 6 people 


A Y,lb. chunk of bacon 


12 cup thinly sliced carrots 

1 cup sliced onions 

3 Tb rendered fresh goose 
or pork fat, or butter 

A 5- to 6-quart, covered, 
fireproof casserole 


2 lbs. (6 to 7 cups) red cab- 
bage leaves cut into 1- 
inch slices 


2 cups diced tart apples 

2 cloves mashed garlic 

14 tsp ground bay leaf 

14 tsp clove 

Ym tsp nutmeg 

12 tsp salt 

Ve tsp pepper 

2 cups good, young red wine 
(Bordeaux, Macon, or 
Chianti) 

2 cups brown stock or 
canned beef bouillon 


24 peeled chestnuts, page 
518 
Salt and pepper 


Preheat oven to 325 degrees. 


Remove the rind and cut the bacon into lardons, strips 


1}, inches long and 4 inch across. You will have 
about 74 cup. Simmer for 10 minutes in 1 quart of 
water. Drain. 


Cook the bacon, carrots, and onions, in fat or butter 


slowly in the covered casserole for 10 minutes without 
browning. 


Stir in the cabbage leaves and when well covered with 


the fat and vegetables, cover and cook slowly for 10 
minutes. 


Stir in all the ingredients listed at the left. Bring to the 


simmer on top of the stove. Cover and place in middle 
level of preheated oven. Regulate heat so cabbage bub- 
bles slowly for 3 to 3/2 hours. 


Add the chestnuts to the cabbage, cover and return 


casserole to oven for 1 to 114 hours more, or until the 
chestnuts are tender and all the liquid in the casserole 
has been absorbed by the cabbage. Taste carefully for 
seasoning, and serve as follows: 

(*) If not served immediately, set aside uncovered. 
Reheat slowly before serving. 


498 


4 or 5 sprigs of parsley 
A hot vegetable dish 


CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 


Turn into a vegetable dish or heap around your meat, 
and decorate with parsley. 





CHOUCROUTE BRAISÉE À L’ALSACIENNE 


[Braised Sauerkraut | 


N 


In France before sauerkraut is braised with wine, stock, aromatic vege- 


tables, and spices, it is always drained and soaked in cold water for 15 to 20 


minutes to remove all but a suggestion of its preserving brine. If you have 
never cared much for the sour flavor of most sauerkraut dishes, this recipe 
may well change you into an enthusiast. Sauerkraut makes a most savory ac- 
companiment to duck,. goose, pheasant, pork, ham, or sausages any of which 
may even cook along with the sauerkraut and give it that much more flavor. 


For 6 people 


2 lbs. (about 5 cups) fresh 
sauerkraut (canned raw 
sauerkraut may be used, 


but it is never as good as 
the fresh) 


A ¥%4-lb. chunk of bacon 


Y, cup thinly sliced carrots 

1 cup sliced onions 

4 Tb rendered fresh goose or 
pork fat, or butter 

A 2/2- to 3-quart, covered, 
fireproof casserole 


The following tied in 
washed cheesecloth: 
4 sprigs of parsley 
z bay leaf 
6 peppercorns 


Drain the sauerkraut (either fresh or canned) and 


soak it in a large basin of cold water for 15 to 20 
minutes or more, changing the water three times. 
Taste the sauerkraut, and when.as much of the briny 
flavor as you wish has been removed, drain it. Taking 
it by small handfuls, squeeze out as much water as 
you can. Pick it apart to separate the strands. 


Remove the rind and slice the bacon into '4-inch 


pieces about 2 inches long. Simmer it in 2 quarts of 
water for 10 minutes. Drain. 


Preheat oven to 325 degrees. 


Cook the bacon, carrots, and onions, in fat or butter 
slowly in the covered casserole for 10 minutes without 
browning. Stir in the sauerkraut and when it is well 
covered with the fat and vegetables, cover and cook 
slowly for 10 minutes more. 





Bury the herb and spice packet in the sauerkraut. 
Pour in the wine, and enough stock or bouillon just 
to cover the sauerkraut. Season lightly with salt. 
Bring to the simmer on top of the stove. Lay on the 
round of buttered paper. Cover and set in middle 


SAUERKRAUT 499 


10 juniper berries (or add level of preheated oven. Regulate heat so sauerkraut 
Y4 cup gin to the casse- bubbles slowly for 414 to 5 hours, and until all the 
role) liquid has been absorbed by the sauerkraut. Taste 

1 cup dry white wine or 74 carefully for seasoning. 
cup dry white vermouth (*) If not served immediately, set aside uncovered. 
2 to 3 cups white stock, Reheat slowly before serving. 
brown stock, or canned 
beef or chicken bouillon 
Salt 
A round of buttered paper 


TO SERVE 
Choucroute Garnie 


| Sauerkraut Garnished with Meat] 


Braised sauerkraut may be used as a bed for sliced roast pork, pork chops, 
ham, or browned sausages, or with roast goose, duck, or pheasant. The dish 
is usually accompanied with boiled potatoes and either a chilled Alsatian wine 
such as Riesling or Traminer, a white domestic wine of the same type, or beer. 

If you wish to cook your meats in the sauerkraut, brown them first in a 
skillet in hot fat; then bury them in the casserole while the sauerkraut is brais- 
ing, timing the meats so they and the sauerkraut will be done together. See 
the recipe for duck braised in sauerkraut on page 280. 


CUCUMBERS 
Concombres 


* CONCOMBRES AU BEURRE 
[Baked Cucumbers] 


If the natural moisture content is not withdrawn beforehand, cucumbers 
exude so much water as they are heated that you usually end up with a tasteless 
mush and swear never to attempt cooked cucumbers again. Blanching for 5 
minutes before cooking will remove unwanted water, but also most of the 
cucumber flavor. A preliminary sojourn in salt draws out the water and also 
the bitterness, if they are of the bitter European type, yet leaves the flavor, 
which a little vinegar and a pinch of sugar accentuates. We have found the 


500 CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 


following method delicious, and suggest it for all cooked cucumber recipes. 
Baked cucumbers go with roast, broiled, or sautéed chicken, roast veal, veal 
chops or scallops, and sautéed brains or sweetbreads. 


For 6 people 


6 cucumbers about 8 inches 
long 


2 Tb wine vinegar 

14 tsp salt 

Y tsp sugar 

A 2/-quart porcelain ar 
stainless steel bowl 


A baking dish 12 inches in 
diameter and 114 inches 
deep 

3 Tb melted butter 

12 tsp dill or basil 

3 to 4 Tb minced green on- 
ions 

W% tsp pepper 


TO SERVE 


Peel the cucumbers. Cut in half lengthwise; scoop 


out the seeds with a spoon: Cut into lengthwise strips 
about 3% inch wide. Cut the strips into 2-inch pieces. 


Toss the cucumbers in a bowl with the vinegar, salt, 


and sugar. Let stand for at least 30 minutes or for 
several hours. Drain. Pat dry in a towel. 


Preheat oven to 375 degrees. 


Toss the cucumbers in the baking dish with the but- 
ter, herbs, onions, and pepper. Set uncovered in mid- 
dle level of preheated oven for about 1 hour, tossing 2 
or 3 times, until cucumbers are tender but still have a 
suggestion of crispness and texture. They will barely 
color during the cooking. 

(*) Set aside uncovered; reheat before serving as in 
the following suggestions. 


Concombres Persillés 


[Parslied Cucumbers] 


A hot vegetable dish 
2 Tb minced parsley 


Turn the baked cucumbers into the vegetable dish, 


sprinkle with minced parsley, and serve. 





Concombres à la Crème 


[Creamed Cucumbers] 


I cup whipping cream 
Salt and pepper 
1 Tb minced parsley 


Boil the cream in a small saucepan until it has re- 


duced by half. Season with salt and pepper, fold into 
the hot, baked cucumbers, sprinkle with parsley, and 
serve. 


CUCUMBERS 501 





Concombres aux Champignons et à la Crème 


[Creamed Cucumbers with Mushrooms] 


12 lb. fresh mushrooms Trim, wash, and quarter the mushrooms. Dry in a 
An enameled skillet . towel. Set them in the dry skillet and toss over 
1 cup whipping cream moderately low heat for 5 minutes. Pour in the 
I tsp cornstarch mixed with cream and cornstarch mixture; boil slowly for 5 

I tsp water minutes or so, until cream has reduced and thickened. 
Salt and pepper to taste Stir in salt and pepper, simmer a moment and check 
2 Tb minced parsley seasoning. Fold into the hot baked cucumbers, sprinkle 


with parsley, and serve. 


Concombres à la Mornay 


[Cucumbers with Cheese Sauce] 


1 cups sauce mornay Fold the cheese sauce into the hot, baked cucumbers. 
(béchamel with grated Sprinkle with cheese, dot with butter, and run under 





cheese), page 61 a hot broiler for 2 to 3 minutes to brown top delicately. 
a to 3 Tb grated Swiss 
cheese 
1 Tb butter cut into pea- 
sized dots 
EGGPLANT 
Aubergines 


Eggplants, like cucumbers, contain a considerable amount of water which 
must be removed before cooking; in their raw state they also have a bitter, 
puckery quality. The most satisfactory way to remove both moisture and bitter- 
ness yet retain flavor is to let them stand in salt for about half an hour. 





AUBERGINES FARCIES DUXELLES 
[Eggplant Stuffed with Mushrooms] 


This excellent eggplant dish goes with roast lamb, lamb chops, or roast, 
sautéed, or broiled chicken. Or it may be a separate vegetable course. Prepara- 


502 


CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 


tion is somewhat long, as it is for many good things, but you may have the 
dish ready for the oven several hours or even the day before baking it. 
For 6 people—12, if the eggplants are divided as they are served 


3 eggplants about 6 inches 
long and 3 inches in di- 
ameter 


1 Tb salt 


2 Tb olive oil 


A shallow roasting pan large 
large enough to hold egg- 
plant halves in one layer 


A 3-quart mixing bowl 


1 cup finely minced yellow 
onions 

172 Tb olive oil or butter 

'A 9- to 10-inch enameled 
skillet 

Salt and pepper 


x Ib. finely minced fresh 
mushrooms 

3 Tb butter 

1 Tb olive oil 

Salt and pepper 


172 packages (414 ounces) 
cream cheese 

4 Tb minced parsley 

12 tsp basil or 1⁄4 tsp thyme 


Remove the green stem covering and cut the egg- 
plants in half lengthwise. Cut striations an inch apart 
in the flesh, going down to within 14 inch of the skin. 
Preheat broiler in time for paragraph three. 


Sprinkle the flesh with salt and lay the eggplants 


flesh down on a towel for half an hour. Gently squeeze 
them to extract as much water as possible. Dry them, 
then dribble the oil over them. 


Place them flesh-side up in a roasting pan and pour 4% 


inch of water around them. Set them so their flesh is 
4 to 5 inches from preheated, moderately hot broiler 
for 10 to 15 minutes, until tender, and lightly browned 
on top. 


Leaving the skin intact, remove all but 4 inch of the 


eggplant meat with a spoon. Chop it and place it in 
a mixing bowl. 

NOTE: In the following stuffing, you may, if you 
wish, substitute for part of the mushrooms 1 cup of 
rice steamed in butter, page 531. 


Cook the onions slowly in the oil or butter in a skillet 
for about 10 minutes until very tender but not 
browned. Season lightly and add to the eggplant in 
the mixing bowl. 


Following the recipe for mushroom duxelles on page 
515, twist the mushrooms, a handful at a time, in the 
corner of a towel to extract their juice. Sauté them in 
butter and oil until very lightly browned (5 to 6 
minutes). Season and add to the mixing bowl. 


Mash the cheese with a fork, then beat it into the mix- 


ing bowl. Beat in the heen and taste carefully for — 
seasoning. 


EGGPLANT 503 
Preheat oven to 375 degrees. 


3 Tb grated Swiss cheese Fill the eggplant shells with the mixture. Top with 
mixed with 3 Tb fine, dry, cheese and bread crumbs, and baste each half with 
white bread crumbs melted butter. 

2 to 3 Tb melted butter (*) May be prepared ahead to this point. 


About 40 minutes before serving, arrange in roasting 
pan and surround with {4 inch of water. Bake in up- 
per third of preheated oven for 25 to 30 minutes to 
heat thoroughly and brown the cheese and bread 
crumbs. 


RATATOUILLE 


[Eggplant Casserole—with tomatoes, onions, peppers, and zucchini] 


Ratatouille perfumes the kitchen with the essence of Provence and is 
certainly one of the great Mediterranean dishes. As it is strongly flavored it is 
best when it accompanies plain roast or broiled beef or lamb, pot-au-feu (boiled 
beef), or plain roast, broiled, or sautéed chicken. Equally good hot or cold, it 
also makes a fine accompaniment to cold meats, or may be served as a cold 
hors d’oeuvre. 

A really good ratatouille is not one of the quicker dishes to make, as each 
element is cooked separately before it is arranged in the casserole to partake of 
a brief communal simmer. This recipe is the only one we know of which 
produces a ratatouille in which each vegetable retains its own shape and char- 
acter. Happily a ratatouille may be cooked completely the day before it is to 
be served, and it seems to gain in flavor when reheated. 

For 6 to 8 people 


1 lb. eggplant Peel the eggplant and cut into lengthwise slices % 
1 lb. zucchini inch thick, about 3 inches long, and 1 inch wide. Scrub 
A 3-quart, porcelain or the zucchini, slice off the two ends, and cut the 
stainless steel mixing bowl zucchini into slices about the same size as the egg- 
1 tsp salt plant slices. Place the vegetables in a bowl and toss 
with the salt. Let stand for 30 minutes. Drain. Dry 

each slice in a towel. 


504 


A 10- to 12-inch enameled 
skillet 
4 Tb olive oil, more if 


needed 


Y, lb. (about 172 cups) 
thinly sliced yellow on- 
ions 

2 (about 1 cup) sliced green 
bell peppers 

2 to 3 Th olive oil, if neces- 
sary 

2 cloves mashed garlic 

Salt and pepper to taste 


1 lb. firm, ripe, red tomatoes, 
peeled, seeded, and juiced, 
page 505 (makes 13⁄2 cups 
pulp) 

Salt and pepper 


A 2/2 quart fireproof casse- 
role about 2/2 inches deep 
3 Tb minced parsley 


Salt and pepper 


CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 


One layer at a time, sauté the eggplant, and then the 
zucchini in hot olive oil for about a minute on each 
side to brown very lightly. Remove to a side dish. 


In the same skillet, cook the onions and peppers 
slowly in olive oil for about 10 minutes, or until tender 
but not browned. Stir in the garlic and season to 
taste. 


Slice the tomato pulp into 34-inch strips. Lay them 
over the onions and peppers. Season with salt and 
pepper. Cover the skillet and cook over low heat for 5 
minutes, or until tomatoes have begun to render their 
juice. Uncover, baste the tomatoes with the juices, 
raise heat and boil for several minutes, until juice has 
almost entirely evaporated. 


Place a third of the tomato mixture in the bottom of 
the casserole and sprinkle over it 1 tablespoon of 
parsley. Arrange half of the eggplant and zucchini on 
top, then half the remaining tomatoes and parsley. 
Put in the rest of the eggplant and zucchini, and finish 
with the remaining tomatoes and parsley. 


Cover the casserole and simmer over low heat for 10 
minutes. Uncover, tip casserole and baste with the 
rendered juices. Correct seasoning, if necessary. Raise 
heat slightly and cook uncovered for about 15 minutes 
more, basting several times, until juices have evapo- 
rated leaving a spoonful or two of flavored olive oil. 
Be careful of your heat; do not let the vegetables 
scorch in the bottom of the casserole. 

(*) Set aside uncovered. Reheat slowly at serving 
time, or serve cold. F 


ee 


TOMATOES 505 


MOUSSAKA, a mold of eggplant and lamb, is in the Lamb section, page 340. 





TOMATOES 
Tomates 


Many recipes calling for tomatoes direct that they be peeled, seeded, and 
juiced. This applies to tomato sauces, to the tomato fondues which are used 
in egg dishes, to various Basque or Provencal recipes, and to the diced tomato 
pulp which may be poached in a soup or a sauce. One pound or 4 or 5 medium 
tomatoes will yield about 114 cups of pulp. 


TO PEEL TOMATOES 


Use firm, ripe, red tomatoes. Drop the tomatoes one or two at a time in 
boiling water to cover, and boil for exactly 10 seconds. Remove. Cut out the 
stem. Peel off the skin starting from the stem hole. 


After a 10-second blanch- 
ing, tomato skin is loos- 
ened and peels off easily 










TO SEED AND JUICE TOMATOES 
(for illustration, see next page) 


Cut peeled or unpeeled tomatoes in half crosswise, not through the stem. 
Squeeze each half gently to extract the seeds and juices from the center of the 
tomato. If they are to receive a cold stuffing, sprinkle the interior with salt 
which will draw more juices out, then invert them in a colander. 


506 CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 








Gently press the juice and 
seeds out of the tomato 


half 


DICED, SLICED, OR CHOPPED TOMATO PULP 


Chop, dice, or slice the peeled, seeded, and juiced tomato halves. Roughly 
chopped tomato pulp is tomates concassées. | 


TOMATES GRILLÉES AU FOUR 
[Whole Baked Tomatoes] 


These make an attractive decoration around a meat platter, or surround- 


ing a dish of green beans. They should be baked only at the last minute if they 
are to retain their shape. 


Preheat oven to 400 degrees. 


Firm, ripe, red tomatoes, all Wash and dry the tomatoes. Cut out the stems, leav- 
of the same size and not ing as small a hole as possible. Sprinkle salt and pep- 
more than 2 inches in di- per into the stem hole. Brush the tomatoes with olive 


ameter oil, then place them stem-end down in the roasting 
Salt and pepper pan. Do not crowd them together. 
Olive oil 


An oiled roasting pan just 
large enough to hold the 
tomatoes easily 


TOMATOES 


Salt and pepper 
Minced, mixed green herbs 
or parsley 


507 


Bake in the middle level of the preheated oven for 


about 10 minutes. Keep an eye on them; they are done 
when the skins break a tittle, but they should not be 


baked so long that they burst. 


Baste them with the pan juices. Season lightly with 


. salt and pepper, and sprinkle herbs or parsley over 


them. Serve as soon as possible. 


* TOMATES À LA PROVENÇALE 
[Tomatoes Stuffed with Bread Crumbs, Herbs, and Garlic] 


One of the most savory ways of serving tomatoes is à la provençale. These 
tomatoes go well with many things—steaks, chops, roast beef, lamb, roast or 
broiled chicken, broiled mackerel, tuna, sardines, herring, or swordfish. They 
may also be a hot hors d’oeuvre, or accompany egg dishes. 


For 6 people 


6 firm, ripe, red tomatoes 
about 3 inches in diameter 
Salt and pepper 


1 to 2 cloves mashed garlic 

3 Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 

4 Tb minced fresh basil and 
parsley, or parsley only 

14 tsp thyme 

Y tsp salt 

Big pinch of pepper 

4 cup olive oil 

1, cup crumbs from fresh 
white bread with body 

A shallow, oiled roasting 
pan just large enough to 
hold the tomatoes easily 
in one layer 


Preheat oven to 400 degrees. 


Remove the stems, and cut the tomatoes in half cross- 


wise. Gently press out the juice and seeds. Sprinkle 
the halves lightly with salt and pepper. 


Blend all the ingredients to the left in a mixing bowl. 


Correct seasoning. Fill each tomato half with a spoon- 
ful or two of the mixture. Sprinkle with a few drops 
of olive oil. Arrange the tomatoes in the roasting pan; 
do not crowd them. 

(*) May be prepared ahead to this point. 


Shortly before you are ready to serve, place them in 


the upper third of the preheated oven and bake for 


508 CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 


10 to 15 minutes, or until the tomatoes are tender but 
hold their shape, and the bread crumb filling has 
browned lightly. 





VARIATION 
Tomates Farcies Duxelles 
[Tomatoes Stuffed with Mushrooms] 


Follow the preceding recipe, but use the mushroom filling described in 
the recipe for stuffed mushrooms on page 516. 


CULTIVATED MUSHROOMS 
Champignons de Couche — Champignons de Paris 


Fresh, cultivated mushrooms are an essential element of French cuisine 
and appear not only as a vegetable or in a garnish, but as an important flavor 
factor in numerous dishes, sauces, and stuffings. Mushrooms should never be 
submitted to prolonged cooking or they will lose most of their taste and tex- 
ture. Therefore if they are to go into a sauce they are usually cooked separately, 
then added to the sauce to simmer a moment and blend their flavor with the 
sauce. 


CHOOSING MUSHROOMS 


It is always advisable to buy mushrooms in bulk rather than in a package, 
so you can hand-pick each one. Some varieties of cultivated mushrooms are 
creamy white, others have brownish caps. The freshest of fresh mushrooms are 
closed on the underside of the cap so that you cannot see the gills. Caps and 
stems should be smooth, unblemished, fresh looking, and fresh smelling. As a 
mushroom ages in the market, the cap expands to expose the gills, the mush- 
room darkens, and begins to dry out. 

If you are not going to use fresh mushrooms immediately, refrigerate 
them in a plastic bag and they will keep perfectly for two to three days. 


PREPARATION FOR COOKING 


Trim the base of the stems. If the gills are even partially exposed, break 


the stem off inside the cap so you will be able to wash out any sand which may 
have lodged in the gills. 


MUSHROOMS 509 


Just before using them, drop the mushrooms in a large basin of cold 
water. Rapidly rub them between your hands for several seconds to dislodge 
dirt particles. Immediately lift them out into a colander. If there are more than 
a few grains of sand left in the bottom of the basin, wash the mushrooms again. 
Dry them in a towel. ` | 


HOW TO CUT MUSHROOMS 


After they have been washed and dried, here are the various ways in 
which mushrooms may be cut. 

To mince or dice 

Place the mushrooms in a heap on the chopping board. Chop them with 
a big, sharp, straight-edged knife, holding an end of the blade in the fingers of 
each hand. Use rapid up and down movements, and repeatedly brush mush- 


Mince small amounts with 
a big knife held between 
thumb and forefinger of 
each hand. For large amounts, 
chop roughly by hand, then 
mince by cupfuls with on- 


off flicks in the processor ne 








SLICED WHOLE MUSHROOMS 


Sliced ee iit) j H) 


STEM CUT OFF AT BASE 


STEM REMOVED ENTIRELY 


DAREA 





510 CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 


rooms back into a heap with the knife. Chop until the pieces are less than 4% 
inch. 


QUARTERED WHOLE 


Quartered 





QUARTERED STEMS 


To flute mushroom caps 

Fluted mushroom caps may be stewed or broiled, and are used as deco- 
rations. It takes a little practice to master the technique of fluting, but it is quite 
a nice professional touch to have at your command. 





Fluted caps 








Hold the mushroom, cap up, in the fingers of your left hand. Its blade 
pointing away from you, hold a very sharp, small knife rigidly in your right 
hand. Rest the thumb of your right hand on the mushroom cap to act as a 
guide. Then rotate the cap toward you against the blade of the knife starting 
at the crown, thus removing a very shallow strip, or flute, down one half of the 
cap. Note that the knife remains stationary; the mushroom cuts itself as it ro- 
tates against the blade. It is your left hand, controlling the mushroom’s move- 


ment, which determines the depth and direction of the cut. Continue in the 
same manner all around the cap. 


MUSHROOMS SII 











Starting at crown, rotate 
mushroom toward you 
against rigidly held knife 
blade 





Left hand guides mush- 
room against knife blade 
and regulates cut 





CHAMPIGNONS À BLANC 


[Stewed Mushrooms | 


When mushrooms are used in white sauces, or in a garniture in which 
they must remain white, they are cooked this way. 


14 lb. fresh mushrooms Trim and wash the mushrooms; cut as directed in 
l3 cup water your recipe, or as shown in the preceding illustrations. 
¥ tsp salt Bring the water, salt, lemon juice, and butter to the 


14 Tb lemon juice (which boil in the saucepan. Add the mushrooms and toss 
helps keep mushrooms to cover them with the liquid. Cover and boil moder- 
white) ately fast, tossing frequently, for 5 minutes. Set aside 

1 Tb butter until ready to use. 

A 4 to 6-cup enameled 
saucepan 


512 


CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 





FUMET DE CHAMPIGNONS 


[Mushroom Essence | 


Mushroom essence is the reduction or boiling down of the cooking juice 
from stewed mushrooms or canned mushrooms. It is used as a concentrated 


i 


mushroom flavoring for sauces. 

Drain the preceding stewed mushrooms. Rapidly boil down their cooking 
liquid in a small saucepan until it has reduced almost to a syrup. 

(*) If not used immediately, refrigerate or freeze it. 


CHAMPIGNONS GRILLÉS 
[Broiled Mushroom Caps] 


Broiled mushroom caps are used as a garniture, usually on steaks. They 
may also be served as a separate vegetable, or as a hot hors d’oeuvre on toast. 


Fresh mushrooms of what- 
ever size you wish 


Melted butter 

A shallow, buttered baking 
dish 

Salt and pepper 


Optional: Beurre Maître 
d'Hôtel (butter mixed 
with lemon juice, parsley, 
and seasonings), page 102 

OR: Beurre pour Escar- 
gots (butter mixed with 
herbs, shallots, and gar- 
lic), page 103 


Preheat broiler to moderately hot. Separate the mush- 
room caps from the stems. Wash and dry the caps. 
Stems may be minced and turned into a duxelles, 
page 515. 


Paint the mushroom caps with melted butter. Arrange 
them hollow-side up in the baking dish. Sprinkle 
lightly with salt and pepper. Place 4 to 5 inches from 
heat, and broil rather slowly for 5 minutes. Turn the 
caps, and broil 5 minutes more or until the caps are 
tender and lightly browned. 


The caps may then, if you wish, be filled with parsley 
butter into which you may also incorporate finely 
minced shallots with or without a bit of mashed 
garlic. Spread the butter in the caps, filling them by 
about a third. 


Just before serving, heat them for a moment or two 
under the broiler until the butter is bubbling. 


MUSHROOMS 


513 





x CHAMPIGNONS SAUTÉS AU BEURRE 


[Sautéed Mushrooms | 


Use these mushrooms either as a vegetable alone or in a combination with 
other vegetables, or as an integral part of such dishes as cog au vin, boeuf bour- 
guignon, poulet en cocotte. Successfully sautéed mushrooms are lightly 
browned and exude none of their juice while they are being cooked; to achieve 
this the mushrooms must be dry, the butter very hot, and the mushrooms must 
not be crowded in the pan. If you sauté too many at once they steam rather 
than fry; their juices escape and they do not brown. So if you are preparing 


a large amount, or if your heat source is feeble, sauté the mushrooms in several 


batches. 


A xo-inch enameled skillet 

2 Tb butter 

x Tb oil 

14 Ib. fresh mushrooms, 
washed, well dried, left 
whole if small, sliced or 
quartered if large 


Optional: 1 to 2 Tb minced 
shallots or green onions 
Salt and pepper 


Place the skillet over high heat with the butter and 


oil. As soon as you see that the butter foam has begun 
to subside, indicating it is hot enough, add the mush- 
rooms. Toss and shake the pan for 4 to 5 minutes. 
During their sauté the mushrooms will at first absorb 
the fat. In 2 to 3 minutes the fat will reappear on their 
surface, and the mushrooms will begin to brown. As 
soon as they have browned lightly, remove from heat. 


Toss the shallots or green onions with the mushrooms. 


Sauté over moderate heat for 2 minutes. 

(*) Sautéed mushrooms may be cooked in advance, 
set aside, then reheated when needed. Season to taste 
just before serving. 





VARIATIONS 


Champignons Sautés a la Bordelaise 
[Mushrooms Sautéed with Shallots, Garlic, and Herbs] 


These may garnish a meat or vegetable platter. 


12 Ib. fresh mushrooms, 
whole if small, quartered 
if large 

1 Tb oil 

2 Tb butter 


Sauté the mushrooms in oil and butter until lightly 
browned. 


514 


3 Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 

Optional: 1 small clove 
minced garlic 

3 Tb fine, white, dry bread 
crumbs 


Salt and pepper to taste 

3 Tb minced fresh parsley, 
chervil, chives, and tar- 
ragon, or parsley only 


CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 


Stir in the shallots or green onions, optional garlic, 
and bread crumbs, and toss over moderate heat for 2 to 


3 minutes. 


-nr ni UNE ee 
Just before serving, season to taste, and toss with the 


herbs. 


Champignons Sautés à la Crème 


[Creamed Mushrooms] 


Creamed mushrooms may garnish canapés, little vol-au-vents, tartlet 
shells, artichoke bottoms, or may accompany such foods as omelettes, poached 
eggs, sweetbreads, or chicken. 


12 Ib. fresh mushrooms, 
whole if small, sliced, 
quartered, or minced if 
large 

2 Tb butter 

1 Tb oil 

2 Tb minced 


green onions 


shallots or 


I tsp flour 


73 to 1 cup whipping cream 
1% tsp salt 

Pinch of pepper 

Optional: 2 to 3 Tb Madeira 


1 to 2 Tb softened butter 


Sauté the mushrooms in hot butter and oil for 4 to 5 
minutes, but do not allow them to brown any more 
than necessary. Add the shallots or onions and toss 
over moderate heat for 2 minutes. 


Stir in the flour and cook slowly for 2 minutes more, 
stirring. 


Off heat, blend in the cream and seasonings. Then 
boil down rapidly until the cream has reduced and 
thickened. Add the optional wine, and boil for a 
moment to evaporate its alcohol. Correct seasoning. 
(*) May be set aside and reheated later. 


% 





Off heat and just before serving, fold in the butter. 


MUSHROOMS 515 


Champignons Sautés, Sauce Madère 


[Sautéed Mushrooms in Brown Madeira Sauce] 


Another appetizing way of using mushrooms is in a brown Madeira 
sauce. You may smother a filet mignon with them, or fill tartlets, or combine 
the mushrooms with sautéed chicken livers and ham to fill a rice ring. If you 
do not have on hand one of the classic, flour-thickened, long simmered brown 
sauces, you may use a quick brown sauce made of very good bouillon thickened 
with arrowroot or cornstarch, as suggested in the recipe. 


Y lb. mushrooms, sliced, Sauté the mushrooms in butter and oil, adding minced 


quartered, or minced shallots or green onions at the end. Remove to a side 
2 Tb butter dish. 
1 Tb oil 


1 Tb minced shallots or 


green onions 


¥ cup Madeira Pour the Madeira into the sautéing skillet and boil it 
down rapidly until it has reduced by half. 


cup brown sauce Add the sauce and simmer for 2 to 3 minutes. Then 
(the flour-thickened sauces stir in the sautéed mushrooms and simmer a moment 
Numbers I or II, pages more to blend flavors. Correct seasoning. 

67 to 69, or the quick (*) May be made ahead of time. Dot top of sauce with 
sauce, Number III, page butter and set aside. 


70) 


= 


1 to 2 Tb butter Reheat just before serving. Off heat, stir in the enrich- 
ment butter. 





DUXELLES 


[Mushroom Duxelles—Minced Mushrooms Sautéed in Butter ] 


Duxelles is a dry, mushroom flavoring for many kinds of stuffings and 
quick mushroom sauces; once made it will keep for several weeks under re- 
frigeration or may be frozen. The juice is squeezed out of the raw minced 
mushroom so that the cooked duxelles will be as dry as possible; if the duxelles 
were wet it would dilute and soften a stuffing. 

For about 1 cup 


516 


12 Ib. finely minced fresh 
mushrooms, whole or just 
stems (about 2 cups) 


An 8-inch enameled skillet 

2 Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 

2 Tb butter 

1 Tb oil 


Salt and pepper to taste 

Optional: 4% cup Madeira 
and 1⁄4 cup brown stock or 
canned beef bouillon 


CHAMPIGNONS 


[Stuffed Mushrooms] 


CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 


A handful at a time, twist the mushrooms into a ball 


in the corner of a towel to extract as much juice as 
possible. (Juice may be saved to go into a sauce or 


soup.) 


In the skillet, sauté the mushrooms and shallots or 


onions in butter and oil over moderately high heat, 
stirring frequently. After 6 to 8 minutes the mush- 
room pieces should begin to separate from each other 
and brown lightly. 


Season to taste with salt and pepper. Add the optional 


wing and stock, and boil down rapidly until liquid 
has reduced to nothing. 

(*) If not to be used immediately, allow to cool. Pack 
in a covered jar, and refrigerate or freeze. 


FARCIS 


Stuffed mushrooms make a good hot hors d’oeuvres or a garnish for a 


meat platter. 


12 fresh mushroom caps 2 
to 3 inches in diameter, 
stems removed 

a to 3 Tb melted butter 

A shallow, lightly buttered 
roasting pan 

Salt and pepper 


3 Tb finely minced onions 

a Tb butter 

1 Tb oil 

3 Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 

Stems from the mushroom 
caps, finely minced and 
squeezed in a towel to ex- 
tract their juice 


Preheat oven to 375 degrees. 


Brush the mushroom caps with melted butter. Place 
them, hollow-side up, in the roasting pan. Sprinkle 
lightly with salt and pepper. 


Sauté the onions in butter and oil for 3 to 4 minutes 
without browning. Then add the shallots or green 
onions and mushroom stems. Sauté as in the preced- 
ing duxelles recipe. ‘ 


MUSHROOMS 
Optional: 14 cup Madeira 


3 Tb fine, white, dry bread 
crumbs 

4 cup grated Swiss cheese 

Y% cup grated Parmesan 
cheese 

4 Tb minced parsley 

V2 tsp tarragon 

Salt and pepper 

2 to 3 Tb whipping cream 


3 Tb grated Swiss cheese 
2 Tb melted butter 


517 


Add the optional Madeira and boil it down rapidly 


until it has almost entirely evaporated. 


Off heat, mix in the bread crumbs, cheeses, parsley, 


tarragon, and seasonings. A spoonful at a time, blend 
in just enough cream to moisten the mixture but keep 


_it sufficiently stiff to hold its shape in a spoon. Correct 


seasoning. 


Fill the mushroom caps with the stuffing. Top each 


with a pinch of cheese and drops of melted butter. 


(*) May be done ahead to this point. 


Bake in upper third of a preheated, 375-degree oven 
for 15 to 20 minutes, or until caps are tender and 
stufing has browned lightly on top. 


CANNED MUSHROOMS 


Canned mushrooms will have more flavor in sauces or garnitures if you 
follow the procedure outlined here. (If they are to be browned, drain them, 
dry in a towel, and sauté quickly in butter and oil with minced shallots or 


onions. ) 


For 1 cup drained, canned 
mushrooms: 

1 Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 

2 Tb butter 

Salt and pepper 

Optional: 1 to 2 Tb port or 
Madeira 


In a small enameled saucepan, cook the shallots or 


onions slowly in the butter for 2 minutes without 
browning. Add the mushrooms and seasonings, and 
toss them in the butter. Add the optional wine. Cover 
and cook slowly for 2 minutes. 

NOTE: The juice from the can may be boiled down 
in a saucepan until reduced to a third of its volume or 
less. Use as a sauce flavoring. 





CHESTNUTS 


Marrons 


Fresh raw chestnuts are in season in the winter months. Choose heavy 
nuts with tight-fitting shells—indications that they are fresh and will have their 


maximum flavor. 


518 CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 


SERVING SUGGESTIONS 


Chestnuts have a traditional affinity for roast turkey, goose, venison, boar, 
wild duck, and pheasant; they also go with pork and with sausages. Chestnut 
purée is used as a starchy vegetable to accompany any of these meats. Whole 
braised chestnuts are often combined with other vegetables such as red cabbage, 
Brussels sprouts, mushrooms, onions, or carrots. Whole partially-cooked chest- 
nuts go into stuffings, particularly sausage stuffings for goose and turkey. 


AMOUNT TO BUY 


One pound or 35 to 40 whole raw chestnuts will yield approximately 2/4 
cups of peeled chestnuts. | 


HOW TO PEEL CHESTNUTS 


Chestnuts have an outside shell and a bitter inside skin, both of which 
must be removed before the chestnuts can be used. Peeling off the inside skin 
is a chore whatever method you adopt. To our mind, and we have tried them 
all, the following is the most satisfactory, especially if you want the chestnuts 
to remain whole. 

With a small sharp knife, peel a 14-inch strip of shell off one side of each 
chestnut. Set chestnuts in a saucepan of cold water, bring to the boil and boil 
I minute; remove from heat. Then three at a time, with a slotted spoon, dip 
the chestnuts out of the water and peel off the shells and inner skins. (Set aside 
until later any recalcitrant chestnuts. Drop them all later into boiling water for 
a moment, then peel them one by one.) The whole peeling process must be a 
continuous operation and done while the chestnuts are still warm. 





PUREE DE MARRONS 
[Chestnut Purée | 


For 6 to 8 people 
A 3-quart, heavy-bottomed Place in the saucepan the chestnuts, celery stalks, and 
saucepan herb bouquet. Pour in enough stock, or bouillon and 
8 cups peeled chestnuts water to cover the chestnuts by 114 inches. Simmer 
2 stalks celery very slowly and uncovered for 45 to 60 minutes, ‘or 


A medium herb bouquet: until the chestnuts are cooked through. Do not over- 
4 parsley sprigs, % bay cook and allow them to become mushy. Drain im- 


CHESTNUTS 


leaf, and !4 tsp thyme tied 
in cheesecloth 

3 cups good brown stock or 
2 cups canned beef bouil- 


lon and 1 cup water 
A food mill 


3 to 6 Tb softened butter, or 
butter and whipping 
cream 

Salt and pepper 

Pinch of sugar, if needed 


Sy) 


mediately; remove celery and herb bouquet. Purée the 
chestnuts in the food mill, then return them to the 
saucepan. 


- Beat in the butter, or butter and cream. If purée is too 


thick, beat in spoonfuls of the cooking liquid. Season 
to taste with salt and pepper, and a pinch or two of 
sugar if you feel it necessary. 

(*) If not to be used immediately, instead of beating 
in the butter, spread it over the surface of the purée. 
To reheat, cover and set over boiling water, beating 
occasionally. 


MARRONS BRAISES 
[Whole Braised Chestnuts | 


24 peeled chestnuts 

A heavy, fireproof casserole 
or baking dish just large 
enough to hold the chest- 
nuts in one layer 

1 Tb arrowroot or corn- 
starch mixed to a paste 
with 2 Tb port, Madeira, 
or water 

2 cups good brown stock or 
1% cups canned beef 
bouillon and 4 cup water 

Water, if necessary 

3 Tb butter 


Preheat oven to 325 degrees. 


Place the chestnuts in the casserole or baking dish. 
Beat the starch mixture into the stock or bouillon and 
pour over the chestnuts. There should be enough 
liquid to cover them by 4 inch; add water, if nec- 
essary. Add the butter. Bring to the simmer, cover, 
then set in lower third of preheated oven. Regulate 
heat so liquid simmers very slowly for 45 to 60 
minutes or until chestnuts are tender. 

(*) If not to be served immediately, set aside un- 
covered. Cover and reheat slowly on top of stove be- 
fore proceeding. 


If liquid has not reduced to a syrupy glaze at the end 
of the cooking, drain it off and boil it down in a sauce- 
pan. Pour it back into the casserole and roll the chest- 
nuts gently around in it to cover them with the glaze. 
Serve as follows: 


520 CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 


Serve sprinkled with parsley, or combined with other 
vegetables as directed in whatever recipe you are 
using. 





POTATOES 
Pommes de Terre 


Out of the vast store of French potato dishes, we have selected an unusual 
version of mashed potatoes, some excellent grated potato pancakes, a series of 
good regional recipes for scalloped potatoes, and one for potatoes sautéed in 
butter. 


KIND OF POTATOES TO BUY 


We shall not classify potato varieties by name. We shall merely specify 
baking potatoes when we mean the type of white potato such as Idaho which 
turns floury after cooking, and boiling potatoes when we are talking about the 
white potato which retains its shape. It is particularly important that you use 
the right kind of potato for such dishes as scalloped potatoes, for the potato 
must not disintegrate during cooking; in such cases we have used quotation 
marks in order to draw your attention to the necessity for using “boiling” po- 
tatoes. 


PUREE DE POMMES DE TERRE A L’AIL 
[Garlic Mashed Potatoes] 


Two whole heads of garlic will seem like a horrifying amount if you have 
not made this type of recipe before. But if less is used, you will regret it, for the 
long cooking of the garlic removes all of its harsh strength, leaving just a pleas- 
ant flavor. Garlic mashed potatoes go with roast lamb, pork, goose, or sausages. 
Although both garlic sauce and potatoes may be cooked in advance, they 
should be combined only at the last minute; the completed purée loses its nice 
consistency if it sits too long over heat, or if it is cooked and then reheated. 

For 6 to 8 people 


z heads garlic, about 30 Separate the garlic cloves. Drop into boiling water, 
cloves and boil 2 minutes. Drain. Peel. 


POTATOES 


A 3 to 4-cup, heavy-bot- 
tomed saucepan with 
cover 


4 Tb butter 


2 Tb flour 

x cup boiling milk 

V4 tsp salt 

Pinch of pepper 

A sieve and wooden spoon, 
or an electric blender 


212 lbs. baking potatoes 

A potato ricer 

A 212 quart enameled sauce- 
pan 

A wooden spatula or spoon 

4 Tb softened butter 

Salt and white pepper 


3 to 4 Tb whipping cream 

4 Tb minced parsley 

A hot, lightly buttered vege- 
table dish 


521 


Cook the garlic slowly with the butter in the covered 
saucepan for about 20 minutes or until very tender 
but not browned. 


Blend in the flour and stir over low heat until it 


_froths with the butter for 2 minutes without brown- 


ing. Off heat, beat in the boiling milk and seasonings. 
Boil, stirring, for 1 minute. Rub the sauce through a 
sieve or purée it in the electric blender. Simmer for 2 
minutes more. 

(*) May be done ahead of time. Dot top of sauce 
with bits of butter to keep a skin from forming. Re- 
heat when needed. 


Peel and quarter the potatoes. Drop in boiling salted 
water to cover, and boil until tender. Drain immedi- 
ately and put through a potato ricer. Place the hot 
purée in the saucepan and beat with the spatula or 
spoon for several ‘minutes over moderate heat to 
evaporate moisture. As soon as the purée begins to 
form a film in the bottom of the pan, remove from 
heat and beat in the butter a tablespoon at a time. 
Beat in salt and pepper to taste. 

(*) If not used immediately, set aside uncovered. To 
reheat, cover and set over boiling water, beating fre- 
quently. 


Shortly before serving, beat the hot garlic sauce vigor- 
ously into the hot potatoes. Beat in the cream by 
spoonfuls but do not thin out the purée too much. 
Beat in the parsley. Correct seasoning. Turn into hot 
vegetable dish. 





CREPES DE POMMES DE TERRE 
[Grated Potato Pancakes] 


These are excellent with roasts, steaks, or chops. As a bed for fried or 
poached eggs, they may be topped with a cheese or tomato sauce. Or roll them 


522 


CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 


around a filling of mushrooms, chicken livers, or ham, top with a sauce, and 


brown under the broiler. 


For 18 crêpes about 3 inches in diameter, or 8 crêpes made in indi- 
vidual 6-inch crêpe pans 


8 ounces cream cheese 
3 Tb flour 
A 3-quart mixing bowl 


2 eggs 
Y, tsp salt 


78 tsp pepper 


6 ounces (114 cups) Swiss 
cheese cut into '%-inch 
dice 


212 lbs. of baking potatoes 
(4 cups when grated) 
A vegetable grater 


3 to 6 Tb whipping cream 
Optional: 2 cup diced 
boiled ham, or % cup 
sautéed mushrooms, 
chicken livers, or onions 
3 to 4 Th fresh herbs, such 
as parsley, chives, chervil 


A 10-inch skillet 

1⁄2 Tb butter, more as 
needed 

Y, Tb oil, more as needed 

A large spoon or ladle 

A hot platter 


Mash the cream cheese with the flour, in the mixing 


bowl. 


` 


Mix in the eggs and seasonings and beat until smooth. 


Stir in the Swiss cheese. 


Peel the potatoes and rub them through the large 
holes of the grater. A small handful at a time, twist 
them into a ball in the corner of a towel to squeeze 
out as much of their water as you can. Stir the grated 
raw potatoes into the egg and cheese mixture. 


Stir in the cream by spoonfuls to make a mixture the 
consistency of a thick, creamed cole slaw—not runny. 
Add optional ingredients. Taste carefully for season- 


ing. 


Set skillet over moderately high heat with the butter 
and oil. When you see the foam begin to subside, ladle 
3 piles of batter into the skillet to form 3 crépes ap- 
proximately 3 inches in diameter and % inch thick. 
Regulate heat so crépes are lightly browned on the 
bottom and bubble holes have appeared on the surface 
in about 3 minutes. Then turn and brown on the 
other sides for about 3 minutes. Transfer to platter 


POTATOES 


523 


and keep warm in one layer while making the re- 
maining crépes. 

(*) If not served immediately, arrange crépes in one 
layer on a baking sheet. Set aside uncovered. Reheat 
for 4 to 5 minutes in a 400-degree oven. 





* GRATIN DAUPHINOIS 
[Scalloped Potatoes with Milk, Cheese, and a Pinch of Garlic] 


There are as many “authenic” versions of gratin dauphinois as there are 
of bouillabaisse. Of them all, we prefer this one because it is fast, simple, and 
savory. It goes with roast or broiled chicken, turkey, and veal. With roast beef, 
pork, lamb, steaks, and chops you may prefer the gratin savoyard which fol- 
lows, since it is cooked with stock rather than milk. Although some authorities 
on le vrai gratin dauphinois would violently disagree, you may omit the cheese. 
If you do so, add 2 more tablespoons of butter. 


For 6 people 


2 lbs. “boiling” potatoes 
(6 to 7 cups when sliced) 


A fireproof baking-serving 
dish about 10 inches in di- 
ameter and 2 inches deep 
(if recipe is increased, dish 
must be wider but no 
deeper) 

12 clove unpeeled garlic 

4 Tb butter 

I tsp salt 

Ye tsp pepper 

z cup (4 ounces) grated 
Swiss cheese 

1 cup boiling milk 


Preheat oven to 425 degrees. 


Peel the potatoes and slice them % inch thick. Place 
in a basin of cold water. Drain when ready to use. 


Rub the baking dish with the cut garlic. Smear the 
inside of the dish with 1 tablespoon of the butter. 
Drain the potatoes and dry them in a towel. Spread 
half of them in the bottom of the dish. Divide over 
them half the salt, pepper, cheese, and butter. Arrange 
the remaining potatoes over the first layer, and season 
them. Spread on the rest of the cheese and divide the 
butter over it. Pour on the boiling milk. Set baking 
dish over heat and when simmering, set in upper third 
of preheated oven. Bake for 20 to 30 minutes or until 
potatoes are tender, milk has been absorbed, and the 
top is nicely browned. (As the oven is hot, and the 
dish shallow, the potatoes cook quickly.) 

(*) May wait for half an hour, loosely covered, over 
simmering water. For a longer wait, stop initial cook- 
ing just before all milk has evaporated. Set aside un- 
covered. Shortly before serving, dot with 2 Tb butter, 
reheat on top of stove, and set in a 425-degree oven 
for 5 to 10 minutes to finish cooking. 


524 


CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 





VARIATIONS 
Gratin Savoyard 


[Scalloped Potatoes with Meat Stock and Cheese] 


For 6 people 


Ingredients for the preced- 
ing gratin dauphinois 
with the following excep- 
tions: 

x cup brown stock or 
canned beef bouillon in- 
stead of milk 

6 rather than 4 Tb butter 


Gratin Jurassien 


Follow the recipe for gratin dauphinois, but substitute 
stock for milk, and increase the butter proportions as 
indicated at the left. 


[Scalloped Potatoes with Heavy Cream and Cheese] 


Potatoes baked in heavy cream are mouth-watering with roast lamb or 
chicken, or turkey, veal, beef, or pork. An important point in this recipe is that 
you must never let the cream come quite to the simmer during the baking; 


thus it will not curdle. 
For 6 people 


4 Tb butter 

A 10-inch, fireproof dish 2 
inches deep 

z lbs. “boiling” potatoes, 
sliced % inch thick (6 to 
7 cups) 

1 tsp salt 

Ye tsp pepper 

1 cup grated Swiss cheese 

11% cups whipping cream 


Preheat oven to 300 degrees. 


Smear 1 tablespoon of the butter in the baking dish. 
Arrange layers of potatoes in it, seasoning each layer 
with salt, pepper, cheese, and dots of butter. End with 
a sprinkling of cheese and butter dots. Pour on the 
cream and bring slowly almost to the simmer on top 
of the stove. Then place in middle level of preheated 
oven and bake for 1 to 14 hours, regulating oven 
heat throughout baking so that cream never quite 
bubbles. The gratin is done when the potatoes are 
tender and have absorbed the cream, and the top is 
lightly browned. | 


POTATOES 


525 





Gratin de Pommes de Terre Crécy 


[Scalloped Potatoes and Carrots with Cream] - 


This mixture of. potatoes, carrots, and cream is delicious with veal or 
chicken. It is the same as the preceding gratin jurassien but the potatoes are in- 
terspersed with sliced, braised carrots prepared as follows: 


2 cups carrots sliced 1⁄4 inch 
thick 

2 Tb butter 

Y% tsp salt 

2 Tb finely minced shallots 
or green onions 

34 cup water 

A 4- to 6-cup, heavy-bot- 
tomed, enameled sauce- 
pan with cover 


Boil the carrots slowly with the butter, salt, shallots or 
onions, and water in the covered saucepan for 20 to 30 
minutes or until the liquid has evaporated and the 
carrots are tender. Then continue as for the preceding 
gratin jurassien, but alternate carrot slices with the 
potato slices. 


Gratin de Pommes de Terre Provengal 


[Scalloped Potatoes with Onions, Tomatoes, Anchovies, Herbs, and 


Garlic | 


This casserole with its full-bodied Mediterranean flavor goes with roast 
lamb or beef, steaks, chops, or grilled mackerel, tuna, or swordfish. It is also 
good served cold. The potatoes need no other liquid than that rendered by the 
tomatoes as they cook together. 


For 6 people 


2 cups thinly sliced onions 

2 Tb olive oil 

A small saucepan 

114 lbs. tomatoes, peeled, 
seeded, and juiced, page 
505 (4 to 5 tomatoes, 2% 
cups pulp) 

14 tsp salt 


Preheat oven to 400 degrees. 


Cook the onions and olive oil slowly together in the 
saucepan until the onions are tender but not browned. 
Cut the tomato pulp into strips % inch wide. Fold 
the tomatoes and salt into the onions. Set aside. 


526 


6 canned anchovies packed 
in olive oil, drained 

2 cloves mashed garlic 

14 tsp basil 

Y tsp thyme 

78 tsp pepper 

2 Tb olive oil (include as 
part of this the oil from 
the anchovy can) 


An oiled baking dish about 
10 inches in diameter and 
2 inches deep 

2 Ibs. “boiling” potatoes 
sliced % inch thick (6 to 
7 cups) 

V4 cup grated Parmesan or 
Swiss cheese 

x tsp olive oil 


Aluminum foil, if necessary 


CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 


In a small mixing bowl, mash the anchovies into a 
paste with the garlic, herbs, pepper, and oil. 


Spread one quarter of the tomatoes and onions in the 


baking dish. Over them arrange half the potato slices, 
then half the anchovy mixture, then half the remain- 
ing ‘tomatoes and onions. Spread over this the rest of 
the potatoes and the anchovy mixture; top with the 
last of the tomatoes and onions. Spread on the cheese, 
and sprinkle with olive oil. 


Place in middle level of preheated oven and bake for 
about 40 minutes, or until potatoes are tender and 
have absorbed all of the juice from the tomatoes. If 
the top browns too much during cooking, cover very 
loosely with a sheet of foil. 

(*) Keep warm or reheat as for the gratin dauphinois, 
page 523. 





* POMMES DE TERRE SAUTEES 
POMMES DE TERRE POUR GARNITURE 


POMMES DE TERRE CHATEAU 
[Potatoes Sautéed in Butter] 


Although we rationed ourselves strictly on potato recipes, potatoes sautéed 
in butter appear as a garnishing suggestion in,so many of the main-course 
dishes that we are including directions for doing them. The following recipe 
demands that the potatoes be sautéed raw, which produces a delectable result. 


But the cooking is rather exacting as raw potatoes will stick to the sautéing pan 
unless certain precautions are taken. i 


POTATOES 


527 


PREPARATION FOR COOKING 


If you were living in France, you would buy smooth oval potatoes 2 to 
2}, inches long, with yellowish flesh, pommes de terre de Hollande. You 
would peel them neatly, and sauté them whole. Elsewhere, choose small boil- 
ing potatoes or new potatoes. Peel them, and cut them into elongated olive 
shapes all the same size, 2 to 2!4 inches long and 1 to 1% inches at their widest 
diameter. Cut them smoothly, so they will roll around easily and color evenly 
when they are sautéed. (You might save the cuttings for the good leek and 
potato soup, page 37.) Do not wash the potatoes; simply pat them thoroughly 
dry in a towel. If you peel them some time in advance of their cooking, roll 


them in a damp towel; dry them in a fresh towel just before sautéing. 


For 4 to 6 people 


2 lbs. (5 to 6 cups) “boiling” 
potatoes or new potatoes 


3 to 4 Tb clarified butter, 
page 15, or 2 Tb butter 
and x Tb oil, more if 
needed 

A 10- or 11-inch heavy skil- 
let large enough to hold 
all the potatoes easily in 
one layer 


14 tsp salt 


A heavy, close-fitting lid for 
the skillet 


Cut the potatoes according to the directions in the 


preceding paragraph. Remember they are not to be 
washed, merely well dried in a towel. 


Add enough clarified butter or the butter and oil to 


the skillet to film it by 46 inch and set over moder- 
ately high heat. When the clarified butter is very hot 
but not coloring, or when the butter foam in the but- 
ter and oil mixture begins to subside, put the potatoes 
into the skillet. Leave them for 2 minutes, regulating 
heat so butter is always very hot but not coloring. 
Then shake the skillet back and forth to roll the 
potatoes and to sear them on another side for 2 
minutes. Continue thus for 4 to 5 minutes more until 
the potatoes are a pale golden color all over, indicating 
that a seared, protective film has formed over them, 
so that they will not stick to the pan. 


Then sprinkle the potatoes with salt and roll them 


again in the skillet. 


Lower heat, cover the skillet, and cook the potatoes 


for about 15 minutes, shaking them every 3 to 4 
minutes to prevent their sticking to the skillet, and to 
insure an even coloring. 


They are done when they yield slightly to the pressure 


of your finger, or when a knife pierces them easily; 


528 CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 


they should be a nice, fairly even, golden brown color. 
Hold the cover slightly askew over the skillet, and 
pour out the sautéing fat. 

(*) If not to be used immediately, set cover askew to 
allow for air circulation, and place skillet on an as- 
bestos mat over very low heat. The potatoes can be 
kept thus for about half an hour. Reheat just to siz- 
zling hot before serving. 


2 to 3 Tb softened butter Then off heat, add the butter and herbs, sprinkle on 

2 to 3 Tb minced parsley, the pepper, and roll the potatoes in the skillet so they 
chives, or fresh tarragon, glisten with herbs and butter. Arrange the potatoes 
or a mixture of fresh around your meat platter, or turn them into a vege- 
green herbs table dish. 

Big pinch of pepper 

A hot vegetable dish 





VARIATIONS 
Pommes de Terre Parisiennes 
[Potato Balls Sautéed in Butter] 


Pommes de Terre Sautées en Dés 


[Diced Potatoes Sautéed in Butter] 


Use exactly the same system as that in the preceding recipe, but form the 
raw potatoes into balls with a potato-ball cutter, or cut them into 14-inch dice. 





RICE 
Riz 
Whatever method you use for rice the grains should emerge whole, 
tender, and separate. Although raw rice is not difficult to cook, many people 
are so afraid of it they dare to attempt only the precooked or parboiled varie- 
ties, thus limiting their scope of rice dishes and denying their skill as good 
cooks. Two factors contribute to the gumminess of badly cooked rice. One is 


overcooking. The other is failure to deal with the floury coating which clings 


to raw rice and becomes sticky and gluey unless the rice is washed or sautéed 
in butter or oil. | - 


RICE 529 


TYPES OF RICE 


Although more than 40,000 varieties of rice exist, only a few of them are 
available commercially. Long grain rice is the one that cooks up the fluffest 
for plain boiled or steamed rice, risottos, and salads. Medium grain rice is 
shorter and tenderer, good for puddings. Short grain and glutinous rice, which 
vary from rather sticky to very sticky indeed, are used mostly by Oriental cooks 
and commercial gravy makers. Remarks on parboiled and precooked as well 
as wild rice are on pages 534-5. 


ENRICHED RICE 


This means that certain minerals and vitamins have been added to replace 
those lost during milling. Since the enrichment is on the surface of the grains, 
it is soluble, and that means (unless you do not want the enrichments!) you 
should neither wash rice before cooking nor rinse it afterward. Most states 
now have laws that rice must be enriched—your box or package will so indi- 
cate. It seems to us that enriched rice cooks faster by 2 to 3 minutes than 
un-enriched rice. In other words, whereas it used to take 18 minutes for the 
cooking of braised rice or risotto, it now takes about 15 minutes. 


AMOUNT TO BUY 
One cup of raw rice makes about 3 cups of cooked rice, or enough for 
4 to 6 people. 
WARNING 


Never stir cooked rice with anything but a wooden fork or chopsticks; 
lift and fluff the rice, being careful not to mash or break the grains. 


* RIZ A L'INDIENNE-RIZ À LA VAPEUR 

[Steamed Rice] 

There are many ways to arrive at plain boiled or steamed rice, and most 
cooks choose one that best suits their temperaments. We find the following 


to be a foolproof system where the rice may be cooked hours ahead of time 


and reheated when needed. 


For 414 cups of cooked rice serving 6 people 


539 


12 cups plain or enriched 
raw white rice 

A heavy-bottomed 2-quart 
saucepan 

3 cups water 

1 tsp salt 


Reheating cooked rice 


3 thicknesses of well-washed 
cheesecloth 

A colander set over a pan of 
simmering water 

A cover 


CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 





Place the rice in the saucepan; stir in the water and 
salt. Bring to the boil over high heat, stir up once 
thoroughly, reduce heat to the simmer—very slight 
heat and bubbling—cover the pan and set timer for 12 
minutes. Take a quick peek at the rice: the liquid 
should be almost absorbed. Fork up a few grains but 
don’t stir it because stirring at this point could turn it 
sticky. Bite into it. It should be very slightly al dente 
—with the faintest crunch, but almost tender. Cover 
the pan and set off heat to let the rice finish cooking. 
(If not tender, sprinkle on droplets of water and cook 
a few minutes more; if liquid has not absorbed, un- 
cover and boil it off, fluffing with a fork.) 

The rice is now ready to serve, but if you are not 
ready to serve it, here are the alternatives: 


Once cooked, rice may be allowed to cool; then cover 
it airtight and refrigerate it for a day or two before 
reheating it. To reheat, first fluff it lightly and steam 
it as follows: 


Steaming—a la vapeur. Fold the rice into the cheese- 
cloth, set in the colander, cover it, and place over the 
simmering water. Steam it for several minutes until 
well heated through. 


ALTERNATE METHODS: Riz à l'anglaise or au beurre 


The frying pan: Sauté the cooked rice lightly in butter, 
tossing and turning and fluffing it with seasonings as 
it warms. 


Double boiler: Turn it into a covered pan and set in a 
larger pan of simmering water. Fluff it with butter, 
salt, and pepper as it heats. 


VARIATIONS AND SERVING SUGGESTIONS 


You can do many things to vary the flavor of plain rice. For instance, use 
half chicken broth and half water rather than water alone for its initial cook- 
ing. Or add some white wine or dry white French vermouth to your water or 


RICE 531 


broth. You may wish an herb flavoring, like a bay leaf, a big pinch of thyme 
or tarragon, or an herb bouquet; add the herbs right at the beginning of the 
cooking. A big pinch of curry or turmeric or saffron flowers gives color to rice 
served with lamb stew or curried dishes. And there are always onions and 
garlic: Simmer ! cup or so of minced onions in a tablespoon of oil or butter or 
half a cup of chicken broth or wine; when tender, proceed in the usual way. 
Or add minced garlic to the rice at the beginning of the cooking, or whole 
peeled raw garlic cloves, which will cook along with the rice. Here are other 
ideas: 


Riz Duxelles 
| Buttered Rice with Mushrooms] 


14 lb. finely diced fresh Following the procedure for duxelles on page 515, 
y 8 P page 515 


mushrooms twist the mushrooms, a handful at a time, in the 
2 Tb butter corner of a towel to extract their juice. Sauté the mush- 
1 Tb oil rooms in butter and oil for 6 to 8 minutes until very 
1 to 2 Tb minced shallots lightly browned. Stir in the shallots or onions and 

or green onions cook slowly for 2 minutes more. Mix in the hot, 
Salt and pepper to taste steamed rice with a fork and season to taste. Fluff in 
1 to 2 Tb more butter the rest of the butter and the parsley. 


2 to 3 Tb minced parsley (*) May be set aside and reheated later. 





RIZ A L’ORIENTALE 
[ Vegetarian Rice Bowl] 


For 4 servings 


4 cups hot steamed rice With the hot rice in a roomy saucepan, deftly fluff in 

1 cup minced onions cooked the onions, eggplant, walnuts, and cherry tomatoes. 
in butter and mixed herbs Season carefully to taste, and turn into warm bowls. 

1 cup diced eggplant sau- Decorate with the omelette strips, and sprinkle with 
téed in oil and garlic parsley. 

Y% cup chopped walnut Pass chopsticks to your guests. 
meats 

12 cherry tomatoes, halved 

Salt and pepper 

1 omelette, cut into strips 

Chopped parsley 


532 CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 





SALADES DE RIZ 

[Rice Salads] 

Cooked rice is a versatile base for many a salad combination, and it is 
always useful to have on hand for quick and attractive meals. Save up such 
treasures to combine with the rice as cooked peas or green beans, ham, chicken 
or other poultry tidbits, lamb, pork sausages, shrimp, crab, lobster—anything 
that you can dice up and, perhaps, marinate first in a tossing of oil, lemon, 
minced shallots or scallions, herbs, and seasonings. For instance: 


For 4 servings 


2 to 3 cups cooked rice Toss the rice in a bowl with droplets of oil, lemon or 
Good salad oil vinegar, and salt and pepper to taste. (Be sure to use 
Lemon juice or wine vinegar a wooden spoon and fork, and toss gently so as not to 
Salt and pepper break the grains.) Toss in the rest of the ingredients 
4 scallions, thinly sliced, in- except for the romaine and broccoli. Season carefully. 
cluding tender green” Arrange the shredded romaine on plates or a serving 
A handful of black olives, dish, mound the rice salad on top, and decorate with 
quartered lengthwise the cooked broccoli, which you have seasoned nicely 
12 cup ham, diced beforehand with salt, pepper, lemon, and oil. (Fresh 
V2 cup each cooked carrots herbs, such as basil, chives, chervil, and tarragon, are 
and beans, diced always welcome.) 
Iı small head shredded ro- 
maine 
x bunch broccoli spears, 
cooked 





RISOTTO-PILAF-PILAU 
[ Risotto—Braised Rice] 


This is the standard French method for braised rice, meaning rice sautéed 
in fat and onions, then cooked in seasoned liquid. Whether the final dish is 
labeled risotto, pilaf, or pilau it is usually done in this manner regardless of the 
traditional techniques of other rice-eating nations. A good risotto is simple to 
make if you bear the following points in mind that apply to a plain risotto as 
well as to one which includes vegetables, chicken, or sea foods. 


SAUTEING 
The rice must first be sautéed slowly in butter for 2 to 3 minutes until it 


turns a milky color. This cooks the rice-flour coating and prevents the rice from 
becoming sticky. : 


RICE 


293 


PROPORTIONS 


Use the correct amount of liquid: 2 cups for each cup of raw rice. 


HEAT 


Regulate your heat so the liquid is entirely absorbed in 18 to 20 minutes. 
If the liquid is absorbed too quickly, the rice will not be tender. If it is absorbed 
too slowly, the rice becomes gummy, the grains disintegrate, and the flavor of 


the rice is impaired. 


STIRRING 


Do not stir the rice until all the liquid has been absorbed. 


For 6 people 


14 cup finely minced onions 

4 Tb butter 

A 6-cup fireproof casserole 
about 8 inches in diameter 
with a tight-fitting cover 


144 cups clean, unwashed, 
raw rice 


3 cups boiling liquid, de- 
pending on what your 
risotto is to be served 
with: 

Chicken stock or canned 
chicken broth 

Brown stock or canned 
beef bouillon and water 

Mushroom broth and wa- 
ter 

White wine fish stock 

White wine or white ver- 
mouth, and water 

OR, water only 

Salt and pepper 


Preheat oven to 375 degrees. 


Cook the onions and butter slowly in the casserole 
for about 5 minutes until tender but not browned. 


Blend the rice into the onions and butter and stir over 


moderate heat for several minutes, not letting the rice 
brown. The grains will at first become translucent, 
then will gradually turn a milky color. 


As soon as the rice looks milky, pour in the boiling 


liquid. Add the herb bouquet, and salt and pepper to 
taste. Bring to the simmer, stir once, cover the cas- 
serole, and set in lower third of preheated oven. As 
soon as the liquid maintains itself at a very slow boil, 
in 4 to 5 minutes, reduce heat to 350 degrees; the boil 
should be regulated so the liquid has been absorbed 
by the rice in 14 to 15 minutes. Do not touch the rice 
during this time. Then uncover the casserole; tilt it 
and lift rice with a fork to see if all liquid at bottom of 
casserole has evaporated. If not, return to oven for 2 
to 3 minutes more. Then remove the casserole from 
the oven. If you wish the rice to be slightly al dente, 
uncover it. If you wish it to become a little more 
tender, leave it covered for 10 minutes. Discard herb 


534 CHAPTER EIGHT: VEGETABLES 


A small herb bouquet: 2 bouquet. Fluff the rice with a fork and correct season- 
parsley sprigs, 3 bay leaf, ing. 
and 44 tsp thyme tied in (*) If not to be used immediately, keep warm over 
cheesecloth barely simmering water. Or set aside, and reheat cas- 
serole over boiling water when needed. 





VARIATION 
Riz en Couronne 


[Rice Ring] 


This is how to make a ring of rice which is to be filled with creamed 
shellfish, sautéed chicken livers with ham and mushrooms, buttered peas, or 
whatever luscious sauced tidbits you wish. 


For 6 people 
Preheat oven to 350 degrees. 


A 6-cup ring mold, smeared Turn the risotto into the buttered mold, patting down 


with 1⁄2 Tb butter the rice lightly; it should fill the mold exactly. Lay 
The preceding risotto the waxed paper over the risotto. Cover with the lid, 
A round of waxed paper and set the mold in the pan of boiling water. Place in 
A lid to cover the mold lower third of preheated oven for ro minutes. 


A pan of boiling water to 
hold the mold 


A round serving platter, Just before serving, turn platter upside down over 
heated and lightly but- mold and reverse the two, to unmold the rice ring 
tered onto the platter. 

(*) If risotto is not to be served immediately, leave it 
in its mold, covered, and over barely simmering 
water. 





PATENTED PARBOILED RICE | 


This is treated by a special steam process designed to harden the grains so 
that they will not stick together when cooked. Use it like regular rice, but it 
may call for a little more liquid and the timing may be a little longer than for 
regular rice. It is a great invention, and the rice has excellent flavor. 


RICE 


DoD 


PACKAGED PRECOOKED RICE 


This is the type of rice which, according to the printed directions, you 
mix with salt and boiling water, then cover and let stand for 5 minutes. It can 
be made much more interesting if you add to it onions or shallots cooked in 
butter, and use a well seasoned boiling stock rather than boiling salted water. 


WILD RICE 


Wild rice has hardly been heard of in France, but you can cook it deli- 
ciously in the French manner by using a modified risotto technique. 


For 6 to 8 people 


122 cups wild rice 
3 quarts boiling water 
114 Tb salt 


3 Tb each: finely minced 
carrots, onions, and celery 

4 Tb butter 

A 2/2-quart fireproof casse- 
role with cover 

1¥% cups brown stock or 
canned beef bouillon 

1 bay leaf 

14 tsp thyme 

Salt and pepper 


Preheat oven to 350 degrees. 


Drop the rice in the boiling salted water and boil un- 
covered for 5 minutes. Drain thoroughly. 


While the rice is boiling, cook the minced vegetables 


slowly in the butter in the casserole for 5 to 6 minutes 
until tender but not browned. Then add the drained 
rice and stir over moderate heat for 2 minutes to im- 
pregnate it with the butter. Add the stock or bouillon, 
bay leaf, thyme, and seasonings to taste. Bring to the 
boil. Cover the_casserole and set in lower third of 
preheated oven for 30 to 35 minutes or until the rice 
is tender and has absorbed all the liquid. Add a few 
drops more liquid if all has been absorbed before the 
rice is tender. The rice grains should emerge separate 
and lightly filmed with butter. Discard bay leaf. Fluff 
rice with a fork and correct seasoning. 

(*) May be cooked in advance and reheated when 
needed. 


nA 


CHAPTER NINE 


COLD BUFFET 


Préparations Froides 


O VEGETABLES, composed salads, aspics, molded mousses, pérés, and 
terrines, any of these may be served as a first course for a dinner, or be the 
mainstay of a summer meal. And a collection of such dishes on a buffet table 
can be most inviting. Recipes for various salad dressings are in the Sauce 
chapter under vinaigrettes starting on page 94, and mayonnaise starting on 
page 87. 





COLD VEGETABLES 
Légumes Servis Froids 


* LÉGUMES À LA GRECQUE 
[Vegetables Cooked in Aromatic Broth] 


Vegetables 4 la Grecque, a refreshing idea for any time of the year, are 
simmered in an aromatic court bouillon of water, oil, herbs, and seasonings. 
After the vegetables have been removed to a serving dish, the court bouillon is 
boiled down to concentrate its flavor, and is poured over the vegetables. When 


the vegetables are cold, serve as hors d’ PENEN, or combine them with other 
vegetables for a composed salad. 


m S — _— — 


Court Bouillon 
[The Aromatic Broth] 
For 1 pound (about 4 cups) of vegetables 


COLD VEGETABLES 


2 cups water 
6 Tb olive oil 
4 cup lemon juice 
12 tsp salt | 
a Tb minced shallot or 
green onions 
The following (tied in 
cheesecloth if you wish): 
6 sprigs parsley including 
roots if available 
1 small celery stalk with 
leaves or 1% tsp celery 
seeds 
1 sprig fresh fennel or 1⁄4 
tsp fennel seeds 
1 sprig fresh thyme or % 
tsp dried thyme 
12 peppercorns 
6 coriander seeds 
A 2¥-quart enameled or 
stainless steel saucepan 
with cover 


291 


Place all the ingredients to the left in the covered 


saucepan and simmer for 10 minutes. 


Champignons à la Grecque 


{Mushrooms 2 la Grecque | 


x lb. fresh mushrooms, but- 
ton size if possible 

1 cup of the preceding court 
bouillon, strained if you 
wish 


A slotted spoon 
A serving dish 
Salt and pepper 


a to 3 Tb minced parsley or 
mixed green herbs 


Trim and wash the mushrooms. Leave whole if small, 
quarter if large. Add them to the simmering court 
bouillon, tossing them to cover with the liquid. Cover 
and simmer for 10 minutes. 


Remove the mushrooms from the saucepan with the 


slotted spoon, and arrange them in a serving dish. 
Rapidly boil down the court bouillon until it has re- 
duced almost to a syrup. Correct seasoning; strain it 
over the mushrooms. 

(*) When cold, the mushrooms may be covered and 
refrigerated, and will keep for 2 to 3 days. 


Sprinkle with herbs just before serving. 


538 CHAPTER NINE: COLD BUFFET 





VARIATIONS: OTHER VEGETABLES À LA GRECQUE 


Any of the following vegetables maybe prepared à la Grecque. In each 
case, make a court bouillon as directed in the preceding recipe, prepare and 
simmer the vegetables as indicated for each kind in the list, then drain and ar- 
range on a serving dish. Boil down court bodillon until it has reduced almost 
to a syrup (less than 1⁄4 cup usually). Pour over the vegetables and chill. Sprin- 
kle on minced, fresh green herbs just before serving. 


Fonds d’ Artichauts à la Grecque 
[Artichoke Bottoms à la Grecque | 


Fresh artichoke bottoms 

Before cooking, trim the artichoke bottoms as described on page 428. The 
choke is removed after cooking. Simmering time is from 30 to 40 minutes. 

Frozen artichoke hearts 

Before cooking, defrost the artichoke hearts enough so that they can be 
separated from each other. As they have been acidulated before freezing, use 
only 1 teaspoon of lemon juice in the court bouillon. Simmering time is about 
10 minutes. 


Céleri à la Grecque 
[Celery à la Grecque] 


Buy bunches labeled “celery hearts.” Remove any tough outside stalks. 
Cut off the tops of the bunches to just below the main body of leaves. Halve 
or quarter the bunches lengthwise, wash thoroughly under running water, and 
arrange them in a baking dish. Pour on the simmering court bouillon, adding 
more water if necessary to cover the celery. Cover the dish, bring to the sim- 


mer, and bake in a preheated 350-degree oven for 30 to 40 minutes or until 
tender. 


Concombres à la Grecque 


[Cucumbers à la Grecque] 


Peel, cut in half lengthwise, and scoop out the seeds with a spoon. Cut 
the halves into 14-inch strips, then into 2-inch pieces. Toss with 44 teaspoon of 


COLD VEGETABLES 539 


salt for each 4 cups of cucumber pieces, and let stand in a bowl for 20 minutes. 
Drain thoroughly, and proceed with the recipe. Simmering time is about 10 
minutes. i 


Aubergines à la Grecque 


[Eggplant à la Grecque] 


Peel the eggplant, cut into serving pieces, and let stand for 20 minutes in 
2 teaspoon of salt and 1 teaspoon of lemon juice for each 4 cups of eggplant 
pieces. Drain thoroughly and proceed with the recipe. Simmering time is about 
10 minutes. 


Endives à la Grecque 
[Endive å la Grecque] 


Fenouil à la Grecque . 


[Fennel à la Grecque] 


Quarter or halve the endives or fennel lengthwise, wash under cold, run- 
ning water, then proceed with the recipe. Simmering time is 30 to 40 minutes. 


Poireaux à la Grecque 


[Leeks à la Grecque | 


Trim off the roots, make two lengthwise cuts in green part, remove a por- 
tion of the green tops to leave the leeks about 7 inches long. Wash thoroughly 
under cold, running water, being sure you get off all grit from each leaf. Ar- 
range the leeks in a fireproof dish, pour on the simmering court bouillon, and 
add boiling water, if necessary, to cover the leeks. Cover the baking dish, bring 
to the simmer on top of the stove, then bake in a preheated, 350-degree oven 
for 30 to 40 minutes or until the leeks are tender. Drain off court bouillon, boil 
it down to 4 cup, pour over the leeks, and chill. 


Oignons ala Grecque 


[Onions à la Grecque | 


Buy pearl onions, or small white onions about an inch in diameter. Drop 
them for 1 minute in boiling water to cover, drain and peel them, then pierce 


540 CHAPTER NINE: COLD BUFFET 


a cross in their root ends to insure even cooking. Proceed with the recipe. Sim- 
mering time is 30 to 40 minutes. 


Poivrons à la Grecque 
[Red or Green Bell Peppers à la Grecque] 


Se 
Halve the peppers lengthwise, remove seeds and ribs, and slice or quarter 
the peppers. Proceed with the recipe. Simmering time 1s about 10 minutes. 


CELERI-RAVE RÉMOULADE 
[Celery Root in Mustard Sauce] 


Celeriac or celery root prepared in this manner makes a typically French 
hors d’oeuvre. But raw celeriac can be tough, and we have suggested a pre- 
liminary steeping in salt and lemon before it is dressed. However, if you grate 
it fine, through a miniature French vegetable mill known as the julienne 
(available in many import shops, and inexpensive), you can dispense with the 
steep and move straight on to the dressing. 

NOTE: Céleri-rave rémoulade has nothing to do with sauce rémoulade, a may- 
onnaise with pickles, capers, and other ingredients. 


1 lb. celery root (3 to 31⁄2 
cups when cut) 

A 2-quart mixing bowl 

1¥ tsp salt 

112 tsp lemon juice 


4 Tb strong Dijon-type pre- 
pared mustard 

3 Tb boiling water 

A wire whip 

13 to 12 cup olive oil or salad 
oil 

2 Tb wine vinegar 


Salt and pepper 


2 to 3 Tb chopped mixed 
green herbs or parsley 


Peel the celery root and cut it into julienne match- 


sticks as illustrated on page 28. Toss in a bowl with 
the salt and lemon juice, and let steep for 30 minutes. 
Rinse the pieces in cold water, drain, and dry them in 
a towel. 


Warm the mixing bowl in hot water. Dry it. Add the 


mustard and beat in the boiling water by droplets 
with a wire whip. Then beat in the oil by droplets to 
make a thick creamy sauce. Beat in the vinegar by 
drops, and season to taste. 


LA 


Fold the celery root into the sauce, and allow it to 
marinate for 2 to 3 hours or overnight. Decorate with 
herbs before serving. 


POTATO SALAD 


541 





POMMES DE TERRE A L’HUILE 


[French Potato Salad—sliced potatoes in oil and vinegar dressing | 


French potato salad is prepared while the boiled, sliced potatoes are still 
warm, so they will absorb the dressing. The salad may be eaten warm with 
grilled sausage, or cold. Mayonnaise may be folded into the potatoes if you 
wish. Be sure to use potatoes which may be boiled and sliced without crum- 


bling. 
For about 6 cups 


2 Ibs. “boiling” potatoes 
(8 to 10 medium potatoes) 
A 3-quart mixing bowl 


4 Tb dry white wine, or 2 
Tb dry white vermouth 
and 2 Tb stock or canned 
bouillon 


2 Tb wine vinegar, or 1 Tb 
vinegar and 1 Tb lemon 
juice 

x tsp prepared mustard 

14 tsp salt 

A small bowl and wire whip 

6 Tb olive oil or salad oil 

Pepper 

Optional: 1 to 2 Tb minced 
shallots or green onions 


2 to 3 Tb chopped mixed 
green herbs or parsley 


Scrub the potatoes. Drop them in boiling salted water 


to cover, and boil until the potatoes are just tender 
when pierced with a small knife. Drain. As soon as 
they are cool enough to handle, peel, and cut them 
into slices about 4% inch thick. Place them in the mix- 
ing bowl. 


Pour the wine or vermouth and stock or bouillon over 


the warm potato slices and toss very gently. Set aside 
for a few minutes until the potatoes have absorbed 


the liquids. 


Beat the vinegar or vinegar and lemon juice, mustard, 


and salt in the small bowl until the salt has dissolved. 
Then beat in the oil by droplets. Season to taste, and 
stir in the optional shallots or onions. Pour the dress- 
ing over the potatoes and toss gently to blend. 


Serve them while still warm, or chill. Decorate with 


herbs before serving. 


Saisie 


COMPOSED SALADS 


Salades Composées 


Here are three recipes and several suggestions for salad mixtures. Green 
vegetables will lose their fresh color if they sit in a vinaigrette for more than 


542 CHAPTER NINE: COLD BUFFET 


half an hour; therefore prepare each component of the salad in a separate dish. 
Just before serving, season each with dressing, and put together the salad in its 
serving bowl. 





SALADE NICOISE = 


[Mediterranean Combination Salad | 


Tuna, anchovies, tomatoes, potatoes, green beans, hard-boiled eggs, and 
lettuce are the usual elements for this appetizing combination, and you may 
arrange the salad in any manner you wish. Serve as an hors d’oeuvre or as a 
main-course summer salad. 


For 6 to 8 people 


3 cups cold, blanched, green Just before serving, season the beans and tomatoes 
beans, page 443 (see also with several spoonfuls of vinaigrette. Toss the lettuce 
directions for frozen leaves in the salad bowl with 14 cup of vinaigrette, 
beans, page 449) and place the leaves around the edge of the bowl. Ar- 

3 or 4 quartered tomatoes range the potatoes in the bottom of the bowl. Decorate 

1 cup vinaigrette (French with the beans and tomatoes, interspersing them with 
dressing) with herbs, page a design of tuna chunks, olives, eggs, and anchovies. 
94 Pour the remaining dressing over the salad, sprinkle 

1 head Boston lettuce, sepa- with herbs, and serve. 
rated, washed, drained, 
and dried 

A salad bowl 

3 cups cold French potato 
salad (preceding recipe) 

x cup canned tuna chunks, 
drained 

2 cup pitted black olives, 
preferably the dry Medi- 
terranean type 

2 or 3 hard-boiled eggs, cold, 
peeled, and quartered ; 

6 to 12 canned anchovy 
filets, drained 

2 to 3 Tb minced, fresh 
green herbs 


COMPOSED SALADS 543 





SALADE DE BOEUF À LA Pr ANNE 
[Cold Beef and Potato Salad] 


This is an attractive way to use cold boiled or braised beef as a main- 
course summer dish or on a cold buffet table. We shall not give proportions 
because they depend on how much meat you have. 


Thinly sliced, cold, boiled or In separate bowls, marinate the beef and the onion 
braised beef rings in vinaigrette for half an hour or longer. When 
Vinaigrette (French dress- ready to serve the salad, arrange the beef on the platter 
ing) with herbs, page 94 alternating the slices with onion rings. Decorate the 
Thinly sliced rings of mild platter with the rest of the ingredients, spoon a bit of 
onion vinaigrette over them, and sprinkle with herbs. 
A serving platter 
French potato salad, page 
541 
Boston lettuce or water cress 
Quartered hard-boiled eggs 
Quartered tomatoes 
Optional: cold cooked green 
beans, broccoli or cauli- 
flower; canned beets 


Minced fresh green herbs 


x SALADE A LA D’ARGENSON 
[Rice or Potato and Beet Salad | 


When rice or potatoes are marinated with beets in a vinaigrette for a suf- 
ficient amount of time, the whole mass becomes beet-colored. Then it can be 
tossed in an herbal mayonnaise, and all sorts of cooked vegetables, meat, or fish 
leftovers can be mixed into it to make a nourishing hors d’oeuvre, a main- 
course dish, or an attractive addition to a picnic. 

For 1 quart or more 


2 cups boiled rice riz au Toss the rice or potatoes, beets, and shallots or onions 
blanc, page 532, OR, 2 ina bowl with the vinaigrette. Season to taste. Cover, 
cups of warm boiled pota- and refrigerate for at least 12, preferably 24, hours. 
toes, peeled and diced 


544 


2 cups diced cooked or 
canned beets 

4 Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 

A 2-quart bowl 

¥4 cup vinaigrette (French 


dressing), page 94 


14 to 2 cups mayonnaise 
with green herbs, page 
87, or the recipe follow- 
ing it, for green mayon- 
naise 

Salt and pepper 

I cup, one or a mixture 
of the following: 
Cooked green peas, or 
cooked and diced green 
beans, cauliflower, broc- 
coli, carrots, turnips, or 
asparagus; diced cooked 
beef, pork, poultry, or 
fish; flaked canned tuna 
or salmon; diced raw ap- 
ples; grated raw carrots; 
walnuts 

A salad bowl 

Decorate with any or all of 

the following: 
Green or black olives, 
anchovies, sliced hard- 
boiled eggs, water cress or 
parsley sprigs 


CHAPTER NINE: COLD BUFFET 


= 

Shortly before serving, fold in the mayonnaise and 
other ingredients. Season carefully. Arrange the salad 
in the bowl and decorate with the suggestions listed. 





ASPICS 


Préparations Froides en Aspic 


Cold chicken decorated with tarragon leaves and shimmering with jelly, 
a molded aspic of chicken livers, or a boeuf mode en gelée—these are lovely 
summer dishes, and fun to do if you enjoy decorating. You may be frightfully 


ASPICS 545 


elegant with your designs, or amusing, and, after a little experience, very pro- 
fessional. 


DEFINITIONS: GELEE, JELLY, ASPIC 


Gelée is the French culinary term for beef, veal, chicken, or fish stock 
which stiffens when cold because it contains natural gelatin, or because gelatin 
has been added to it. Liquid or jelled, it is always spoken of as gelée. We shall 
refer to gelée, whether hot or cold, liquid or set, as jelly or jellied stock. Aspic, 
in French, usually refers not to the jelly, but to the whole decorated dish of 
various elements coated with or molded in jelly. 


RECIPES FOR JELLY 


Directions for homemade jellied stock are on page 112 in the Stocks and 
Aspic section. These stocks are almost always clarified, meaning that they are 
rendered clear and sparkling through a simmering with egg whites; directions 
for clarification are on page 111. Canned bouillons and consommés are turned 
into jelly by the addition of powdered gelatin, as described on page 113; fol- 
lowing this are directions for wine flavorings. 


HOW TO WORK WITH JELLY 


Never fail to test out the jelly before you begin to work with it: Pour 4 
inch of jelly into a small, chilled saucer, and refrigerate for about 10 minutes 
or until set. Then break it up with a fork and let it stand at room temperature; 
the pieces should hold their shape but not be rubbery. Further information and 
gelatin proportions are on page 113. 

Allow yourself plenty of time and cracked ice, for the jelly must be given 
full opportunity to set; it cannot be hurried. A complicated decoration need 
not be completed in one continuous operation. Successive coats of jelly may be 
spooned over the dish whenever you have time, and the process may go on in 
spurts all one day and on into the next. 

Coating Foods with Aspic Jellied stocks set very quickly once they are 
cold. To avoid continual warmings of the whole amount when you are to coat 
foods with successive layers of jelly, heat just what you will need at one time 
in a small saucepan. Stir over cracked ice until the liquid turns syrupy, indicat- 
ing it is about to congeal. Then remove the pan immediately from its bed of 
ice, and spoon a layer of jelly over the chilled food. Refrigerate the platter for 


546 CHAPTER NINE: COLD BUFFET 


about 10 minutes to set the layer of jelly, and repeat the process two or three 
times until you have built up a coating of jelly almost % of an inch thick. 


DECORATIVE ELEMENTS 


CHoppep JELLY When you spoon jelly over foods arranged on a platter, 
you will usually need to fill up empty spaces or cover dribbles of jelly that have 
run off the edges of the food. Chopped jelly isyan easy solution, and is made as 
follows: Pour a 14-inch layer of jelly into a plate or pan and chill until set. 
Then make narrow crosshatches through the jelly with a knife to cut it into 
small pieces % inch or less in size. Either force the jelly through a pastry bag 
to outline the food or to fill up the platter, or heap it into place with a spoon. 

Jetty Cutouts These make nice decorations around the edge of a plat- 
ter. Chill a 14-inch layer of jelly in a plate or pan, then cut it into squares, tri- 
angles, or diamonds, and it is ready to use. 

DesicNs AND CoLors You can make fanciful decorations of curlicues, 
sprays, branches and flowers, or geometric patterns out of the ingredients listed 
below. Use them as follows: First spoon two or three layers of jelly over the 
chilled food; chill your decorative materials and cut them into various shapes. 
Then, holding them with two trussing needles or skewers, dip them into al- 
most-set jelly and arrange them over the food. Refrigerate the platter of food 
to set the designs, then give a final coating or two of jelly to cover the decora- 
tions with a transparent film. 

For Brack: Use thin slices of truffle or black olives. 

For Rep: Use thin strips, dice, or dots of canned red pimiento. The pulp 
of peeled, seeded, and juiced tomatoes, page 505, may be diced or sliced, or 
twisted in the corner of a towel to make little balls. 

For YELLow: Use hard-boiled egg yolks, mashed with softened butter, 
and pushed through a pastry tube to make dots or fluted designs. 

For ORANGE: Use cooked carrots sliced, diced, or cut into strips. 

For Green: Use fresh or pickled tarragon leaves, dropped in boiling wa- 
ter for 30 seconds, refreshed in cold water, and dried on a towel. Cooked green 
peppers cut into strips or dice. The green tops of leeks or green onions sim- 
mered in water for several minutes until softened, refreshed in cold water, and 
dried; cut into thin strips, these can then be formed into curlicues, or made to 
look like branches of mimosa (use dots of “yellow” for the flowers). 

For Wire: Use hard-boiled egg white, thinly sliced and cut into ni 
dice, or shapes. 


ASPICS 547 





OEUFS EN GELÉE 
[Poached Eggs in Aspic] 


Serve eggs in aspic as a first course or luncheon dish, or arrange them 
around a platter of cold meats, fish, or vegetables. 
For 6 eggs 


3 cups jelly (jellied stock, Pour % inch of jelly in the bottom of each mold and 
page 112, or canned con- refrigerate for about 10 minutes or until set. 
sommé with gelatin, page 
113) 
6 round or oval molds of 4 
cup capacity, preferably of 
metal as they are easier to 
unmold 


12 tarragon leaves, fresh or Drop the tarragon leaves into boiling water for 30 
preserved in vinegar seconds. Refresh in cold water, drain, dry, and chill. 
Dip them in a bit of almost-set jelly, and arrange them 
in a cross over the jelly in the bottom of each mold. 

Chill for a few minutes to set the tarragon. 


6 chilled poached eggs, page Place an egg in each mold, its least attractive side up. 
116 Pour in almost-set jelly to cover the eggs. Chill for an 
hour or so, until the jelly is well set. 


Chilled plates At serving time, dip each mold for 3 to 4 seconds in 
Lettuce leaves hot water. Run a knife around the edge of the jelly, 


turn the mold upside down and, giving it a sharp 
knock on the bottom, unmold on a chilled serving 
plate over a bed of lettuce leaves. 





OTHER DECORATIONS 


Lay a thin slice of ham over the cross of tarragon leaves. Or make designs 
of truffle in the bottom of the mold, top with a slice of foie gras, then add the 
poached egg and the rest of the jelly. 


548 


CHAPTER NINE: COLD BUFFET 





x  FOIES DE VOLAILLE EN ASPIC 
[Chicken Livers in Aspic] 


Chicken livers sautéed in butter, simmered in wine, then molded in aspic 


make a delicious hors d’oeuvre, and are most simple to do. 


For six 14-cup molds 


21/2, cups jelly (jellied stock, 
page 112, or canned con- 
sommé with gelatin, page 
113) 

6 round or oval molds of % 
cup capacity, preferably of 
metal 


6 large, whole chicken livers 


An 8-inch enameled skillet 

2 Tb butter 

1 Tb oil 

2 Tb finely minced shallots 
or green onions 


- Big pinch of salt 

Pinch of pepper 

Pinch of allspice 

7% cup Madeira or port, or 
3 cup cognac 


Optional: 6 slices of truffle 
Chilled plates or platter 
Lettuce leaves 


ee’ 


Pour a 14-inch layer of jelly into the bottom of each 
mold and chill until set. 


Look over the chicken livers, and cut out any blackish 
or greenish spots. Dry the livers thoroughly on paper 
towels. 


Set the skillet over moderately high heat with the but- 
ter and oil. When you see that the butter foam has 
almost subsided, add the chicken livers. Stir and toss 
for 2 minutes to brown the livers very lightly. Add 
the shallots or onions and toss for 5 seconds more. 
Hold a cover askew over the skillet and drain out all 
the sautéing fat. 


Sprinkle the seasonings over the livers; pour in the 


wine or cognac. Cover the skillet and simmer very 
slowly for 8 minutes, then remove the livers to a side 
dish. Rapidly boil down the cooking juices until re- 
duced to a syrupy consistency. Remove from heat, 
roll the livers in the skillet to cover with the juices, 


and chill. 


Place a slice of optional truffle over the jelly layer in 
each mold, and arrange a chicken liver over it. Fill 
the molds with the remaining jelly, which should be 
syrupy and almost set. Chill for an hour or so. Un- 
mold on chilled serving plates or a platter, over 
lettuce leaves. 


ASPICS 549 





VARIATION 
Homard, Crabe, ou Crevettes en Aspic 
[Lobster, Crab, or Shrimp in Aspic] 


The preceding system may also be adapted for lobster, crab, or shrimp 
meat in aspic. | 





POULET EN GELÉE À L’ESTRAGON 
[Chicken Tarragon in Aspic] 


Also for: turkey, game hens, squab pigeons, guinea hen, and pheasant. 


Chicken in tarragon jelly is one of the simplest and best of the cold poul- 
try dishes. The chicken may be poached by complete immersion in tarragon- 
flavored stock which is then clarified and turned into jelly, or you may follow 
the simpler version here. 

For 6 people 


Cooking the chicken 


A 3-lb. ready-to-cook roast- Following the procedure for casserole-roasted chicken 
ing chicken with tarragon, page 249, season the cavity with salt, 
14 tsp salt, 2 Tb butter, and butter, and tarragon. Truss and butter the chicken, 
3 sprigs fresh tarragon or then brown it on all sides in hot butter and oil in a 
14 tsp dried tarragon for casserole. Salt the chicken, add the tarragon, cover the 


inside the chicken casserole, and roast in a preheated 325-degree oven for 
2 Tb butter and 1 Tb oil for 1 hour and 10 to 20 minutes. Remove the chicken, 
browning the chicken and let it cool to room temperature. Then chill it. 
A heavy, covered, fireproof 
casserole 
14 tsp salt 


3 sprigs fresh tarragon or 1/2 
tsp dried tarragon for the 
casserole 


The tarragon jelly 


2 or 3 sprigs fresh tarragon Stir the tarragon into the jelly; bring to the simmer, 
or 1 tsp dried tarragon cover, and let steep over very low heat for 10 minutes. 
4 cups jelly (jellied stock 
made from brown chicken 


559 


stock, page 112, or canned 
consommé with gelatin, 
page 113) 

An enameled saucepan 


4 to 5 Tb Madeira or port 
A chilled saucer 


Decorating the chicken 


An oval serving platter 
about 16 inches long 


A small saucepan 
A bowl of cracked ice 


20 to 30 fresh tarragon leaves 
or tarragon leaves pre- 
served in vinegar 

2 trussing needles or 
skewers, or a small, 
pointed knife (for picking 
up tarragon leaves) 

A saucer of almost-set jelly 


A pan or platter 


CHAPTER NINE: COLD BUFFET 


Remove from heat, and stir in the wine by spoonfuls, 
tasting, until you have achieved the flavor you wish. 
Strain through’ a very fine sieve or several thicknesses 
of washed cheesecloth. Test a bit of it in a chilled sau- 
cer in the refrigerator, to be sure it will jell to the right 
consistency. 


Pout a %-inch layer of jelly into the platter, and chill 
in the refrigerator until set. 


Carve the chicken and arrange it over the layer of 
jelly. Return the platter to the refrigerator. 


Pour a cupful of jelly into the saucepan and stir over 
ice until it has become syrupy. Immediately remove 
from the ice, and spoon the almost-set jelly over the 
chicken; this first layer will not adhere very well. 
Chill the chicken for 10 minutes, and spoon another 
layer of almost-set jelly over it. Repeat. 


Drop the tarragon leaves in boiling water for 10 sec- 
onds. Refresh in ice water, and dry. Dip each leaf in 
the almost-set jelly, and arrange in a decorative pattern 
over the chicken. Chill. Then spoon on a final layer 
of almost-set jelly. 


Pour the remaining jelly into the pan or platter and 
chill until set. Chop the jelly into 14-inch pieces and 
distribute it around the chicken. 


Refrigerate. Unless the weather is very warm, remove 
the chicken from the refrigerator half an hour before 
serving; it will have more flavor if it is not too cold. 


ASPICS 


35% 


x  SUPRÊMES DE VOLAILLE EN CHAUD-FROID, 
BLANCHE NEIGE 


[Breast of Chicken inc hauda-froid | 


Here is a decorative, delicious, and easy-to-execute aspic which lends it- 
self to numerous variations as suggested at the end of the recipe. The cold 
cream sauce for this, which congeals into an aspic covering over the chicken 
breasts, looks like the classic sauce chaud-froid—flour-based, jellied velouté 
with cream. The sauce chaud-froid blanche neige used here is purely a reduc- 
tion of tarragon-flavored stock and cream in which gelatin has been dissolved; 
it is much lighter and nicer in texture than the classic sauce, we think. Serve 
chicken breasts in chaud-froid as a luncheon dish, or as part of a cold buffet. 


For 6 people 


6 suprémes (the skinless 
and boneless breast-halves 
from 3 frying chickens) 

A serving platter 

Waxed paper 


14 cups whipping cream 
1% cups excellent white 
chicken stock, page 237, 
OR, canned chicken broth 
simmered for 20 minutes 
with 1⁄4 cup thinly sliced 
carrots, 1⁄4 cup thinly 
sliced onions, and a pinch 
of thyme 

sprig fresh tarragon or 4 
tsp dried tarragon 

Salt and white pepper 


Lal 


1 Tb (x envelope) gelatin 
3 Tb dry white vermouth 


Poach the chicken breasts in butter as described at the 
“beginning of the recipe, suprémes de volaille à blanc, 
page 268. Drain them, and let them cool to room tem- 
perature. Arrange them in a serving platter, cover 
with waxed paper, and chill. 


Simmer the cream, chicken stock or broth, and tarra- 
gon slowly in the saucepan for about 10 minutes, until 
the mixture has reduced to 2 cups. Correct seasoning, 
and strain. 


Soften the gelatin in the vermouth for a few minutes. 
Then beat it into the cream mixture and stir over low 
heat until the gelatin has dissolved completely. Cool, 
or stir over cracked ice, until the sauce has thickened 
slightly and is just about to congeal. 


Spoon a layer of sauce over the chilled chicken breasts, 
and refrigerate until the sauce has set. Repeat with 


552 


A handful of fresh tarragon 
leaves or tarragon leaves 
preserved in vinegar; 
OR, thinly sliced or finely 
diced truffle 


Water cress or parsley 


AN ELABORATION 


CHAPTER NINE: COLD BUFFET 


successive coats of almost-set sauce until all but enough 
for a final layer has been used. 


Drop the tarragon leaves in boiling water for 30 sec- 


onds, refresh in ice water, and dry. Immediately after 
coating the chicken with the final layer of sauce, dec- 
orate with the tarragon leaves or truffles. Surround 
the edge of the platter with water cress, or sprigs of 
parsley, and refrigerate again until serving time. 


2 


After the tarragon leaves or slices of truffle have set, the chicken breasts 


may be given one or two coats of almost-set jelly, as in the preceding recipe for 


chicken tarragon, and the platter may be decorated with chopped jelly or jelly 


cutouts. 





VARIATIONS 


Suprémes de Volaille en Chaud-froid à l’Ecossaise 
[Breast of Chicken in Chaud-froid with Diced Vegetables] 


Ingredients for the master 
recipe 

V3 cup each: finely diced 
carrots, celery, and onions 
cooked until tender in 
1⁄2 Tb butter 

1 or 2 finely minced truffles, 
or 1⁄4 cup diced mush- 
rooms cooked in butter 


Proceed as for the master recipe, but stir the cooked 
carrots, celery, and onions into the chicken stock and 
cream mixture as it is reducing. Mix in the truffles or 
mushrooms, then the gelatin called for in the recipe, 
and continue as directed. With this sauce, the chicken 
breasts need no other decoration. 


eee 


Suprémes et Mousse de Volaille en Chaud-froid 
[Breasts of Chicken and Mousse of Chicken in Chaud-froid ] 


When you wish to make something wonderful for an elaborate bakt 
such as a wedding breakfast, here is a good idea. Directions for chopped jelly, 


ASPICS 


553 


jelly cutouts, and other decorative elements are at the beginning of this section 
on aspics. We shall not note the number of servings for this recipe, as it is de- 
signed primarily to give you an indication of how to go about such a dish. 


Ingredients for chicken 
breasts in chaud-froid 
(the master recipe) 


A mousse of chicken, page 
560, or of chicken livers, 
page 559 

A chilled serving platter 

Sufficient jelly for glazing 
and for other decorations 
(jellied stock, page 112, or 
consommé with gelatin, 


page 113) 


Cook and chill the chicken breasts and prepare the 


. chaud-froid sauce as directed in the master recipe. 


The chicken breasts may be cut in halves or in thirds, 
if you wish. 


Unmold the mousse on the platter and pour around it 
a %-inch layer of almost-set jelly. Chill. 


Place the chilled chicken breasts on a rack set over a 
tray, and coat the breasts with several layers of chaud- 
froid sauce, chilling between each layer. Decorate 
with truffles, tarragon leaves, or whatever else you 
wish; then chill and glaze with coats of almost-set 
jelly. With two knives lift each breast off the rack 
and arrange on the platter around the mousse. Deco- 
rate platter with chopped jelly or jelly cutouts. Chill 
until shortly before serving time. 


Crabe ou Homard en Chaud-froid, Blanche Neige 
{Crab or Lobster in Chaud-froid | 


Crab or lobster in chaud-froid follows the general method of chicken 
breasts in chaud-froid, and makes a decorative cold first course or summer 
luncheon dish. Directions for steaming live lobster (which also apply to crab) 
are at the beginning of the lobster Thermidor recipe on page 221; boil down 


the steaming-liquid afterward, and use it in place of the fish stock called for in 


the following recipe. 


For an hors d’oeuvre serving 6 people 


554 


2 cups cooked lobster or 
crab meat 

3 Tb butter 

An enameled skillet 

2 Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 

14 tsp dry mustard 

Pinch Cayenne pepper 

Salt and pepper 

3 Tb cognac 


1 cups whipping cream 
1⁄4 cups white-wine fish 
stock (shellfish steaming- 
liquid, or the white-wine 
stock on page 114, or the 
emergency stock follow- 
ing it) 

sprig fresh tarragon or 1⁄4 
tsp dried tarragon 

Tb (x envelope) gelatin 
softened in 3 Tb dry 
white vermouth 


baal 


| 


N 


crab, lobster, or scallop 
shells, or porcelain or glass 
shells of about % cup 
capacity 
Crab or lobster claws, scal- 
loped shellfish meat, 
truffle slices, or blanched 
tarragon leaves (enough 
to decorate the shells) 
Optional: 1 cup almost-set 
jellied stock, page 112-13 


CHAPTER NINE: COLD BUFFET 


Dice or flake the shellfish meat. Heat the butter to 


bubbling in the skillet, then stir in the shallots or on- 
ions and shellfish meat, and cook slowly for 2 minutes. 
Stir in the mustard and Cayenne pepper, and season 
to taste. Then pour in the cognac, and boil rapidly for 
a minute or two, shaking the skillet, until the cognac 
has reduced almost completely. Chill. 


Following the recipe for breast of chicken in chaud- 


froid, page 551, simmer the cream and stock together 
with the tarragon until reduced to 2 cups. Dissolve 
the gelatin completely in the hot sauce, strain, correct 
seasoning, and cool until the sauce is almost set. 


Fold 14 cups of the almost-set sauce into the chilled 


shellfish meat. Arrange the mixture in the shells, and 
coat with the remaining sauce. Decorate with shell- 
fish claws, shellfish meat, truffle slices, or tarragon 
leaves. Then, if you wish, chill, and coat with a layer 
of jellied stock. Chill until shortly before serving 
time. 


VOLAILLES EN ESCABECHE 
[Cold Fowl in Lemon Jelly] 


For: chicken, pigeon, mature pheasant and partridge, and for game hens. 


The Paris restaurateur from whom we borrowed this recipe makes a 


ASPICS 555 


specialty of escabéche in the late fall when partridge are no longer young, and 
have turned from perdreau to perdrix. The birds are slowly simmered in wine, 
stock, olive oil, vinegar, aromatic vegetables, herbs? garlic, and slices of lemon. 
They are cooled in this liquid which, because of the pectin in the lemon and 
the gelatin in the poultry bones, turns into a very light jelly. If you want a 
stiffer jelly, you can add powdered gelatin to the liquid after the birds are 
cooked. Escabéche, which is Spanish in origin, is usually associated with fish, 
but it is also extremely successful for elderly poultry as the lemon and vinegar 
help to tenderize the flesh. Simmering times for various birds are as follows: 

Cut-up frying chicken, 1 hour 

Cut-up roasting chicken, 114 hours 

Cut-up stewing chicken, 244 hours or more 

Whole Cornish game hen or pigeon weighing about 114 pounds, 14% 

hours 
Mature, whole partridge, 2 to 2!4 hours 
Mature, cut-up pheasant, 2 to 21 hours 


For 1 cut-up, 4-lb. stewing chicken (or 1 cut-up, 4-lb. pheasant, or 
2 whole game hens or partridges, simmered according to the preceding time- 


table) 


12 cup each: thinly sliced Place the vegetables and garlic in the saucepan and 
onions, carrots and celery cook slowly with the olive oil for 10 minutes without 

6 cloves peeled garlic browning. 

A 2-quart saucepan 

12 cup olive oil 


12 cup dry white wine or % Stir in all the ingredients at the left and simmer for 10 


cup dry white vermouth minutes. Taste for seasoning, and salt lightly if nec- 
13 cup wine vinegar essary. 
1, lemon cut into '%-inch 

slices 


Y% cup thinly sliced green 
or red bell peppers 

14 tsp thyme 

14 tsp rosemary 

12 bay leaf 

2 parsley sprigs 

5 peppercorns 

2 cups white stock or canned 
chicken broth 

Salt 


556 


A cut-up stewing chicken, 
plus the neck, heart, and 
peeled gizzard 

A heavy, covered, fireproof 
casserole just large enough 
to hold the chicken 

A slotted spoon 


A serving dish deep enough 
to hold chicken and sauce 
Salt and pepper 


CHAPTER NINE: COLD BUFFET 


Place the neck, heart, and gizzard in the bottom of the 


casserole. Arrange the dark meat over them. With a 
slotted spoon, distribute half the cooked vegetables and 
lemon slices over the ‘dark.meat. Then put in the 
white meat, cover with the rest of the vegetables, and 
pour on the cooking broth. Add water if necessary, 
so chicken is just covered with liquid. 


Bring to the simmer on top of the stove, cover, and 
simmer very slowly either on the stove or in a pre- 
heated 300-degree oven for 2% hours, or until the 
chicken is very tender but the meat does not fall from 
the bones. Uncover, and allow the chicken to cool in 
the stock for half an hour. Remove any loose bones. 


Arrange the chicken in a deep serving dish. Dip out 


the vegetables and lemon slices and distribute them on 
and around the chicken. Skim the fat and oil off the 
cooking stock and boil the stock down rapidly if nec- 
essary until it has reduced to 2 cups. Correct season- 
ing, and strain over the chicken. Allow the dish to 
cool to room temperature, then cover and refrigerate. 
When chilled, the sauce will thicken into the consist- 
ency of a jellied soup. 





BOEUF MODE EN GELEE 
[Cold Braised Beef in Aspic] 


The braised beef on page 309 can be turned into a splendid cold dish 
with very little trouble. If you are going to make the traditional recipe, the 
proceedings must be started at least the day before you are to serve; the beef 


needs 24 hours of marination, 5 hours for browning and braising, and 4 to 6 


hours for chilling in jelly. Once made, it may be covered and kept under re- 


frigeration for 2 to 3 days 
well with it. 
For 10 to 12 people 


Ingredients for the marina- 
tion and braising of a 5-lb. 


. A light red wine and French bread would go very 


? 


Marinate and braise the beef, and braise the carrots — 
and onions according to the recipe, but omit the final 


ASPICS 


piece of boneless beef, 
page 309, including the 
braised carrots and onions 


2 Tb (2 envelopes) gelatin 

3 cups cold brown stock or 
canned consommé 

Salt and pepper 

4 cup port or brandy 

A chilled saucer 


557 


sauce-thickening step. Remove the meat to a carving 


board. 


Degrease the braising liquid thoroughly, then boil it 


down until it has reduced to 314 to 4 cups. Soften the 
gelatin in the cold stock or consommé, pour it into the 
braising liquid and stir over low heat until the gelatin 
has dissolved completely. Correct seasoning carefully. 
Pour in the port or brandy and strain. The liquid 
has now become a jelly; test a bit of it in a chilled 
saucer as described on page 114. 


For a simple arrangement in a mold 


A rectangular mold, ter- 
rine, or baking dish large 
enough to hold the sliced 
meat and vegetables 


A chilled serving platter 
Water cress, parsley, or 
leaves of Boston lettuce 


Slice the beef into serving pieces and arrange in the 
mold, interspersing the slices with the braised carrots 
and onions. Pour in the jelly, which need not be cold. 


- Chill for 4 to 6 hours, or until well set. 


When ready to serve, dip the mold in hot water for 
several seconds. Run a knife around the edge of the 
aspic. Turn platter over mold, reverse, and give a 
sharp jerk to unmold aspic on platter. Decorate 
platter with water cress, parsley, or lettuce. 


For a more elaborate arrangement on a platter 


An oval serving platter 


A small saucepan set in a 
bowl of cracked ice 


Cut the beef into serving pieces and chill. Chill the 
braised onions and carrots. 


Pour '% inch of the jelly into the serving platter and 
chill until set. Then arrange the chilled meat and 
vegetables on the layer of jelly. 


Pour 2 cups of jelly into the saucepan and stir over 
cracked ice until the jelly is syrupy, and on the point 
of setting. Spoon a layer over the meat and vegeta- 
bles. Chill for 10 minutes. Repeat with 2 or 3 more 
layers of almost-set jelly, chilling the meat between 
each. Chill the remaining jelly, chop into '%-inch 
pieces, and arrange it around the platter. 


558 CHAPTER NINE: COLD BUFFET 





MOLDED MOUSSES 
Mousses Froides — Mousselines 


A beautifully flavored and molded creation glittering in aspic is always 
impressive as a first course, as a luncheon dish, or on a cold buffet table. All of 
the following are purées of chicken liver, poultry, ham, or fish mixed with 
wine and seasonings and, in all but one recipe, jellied stock. Softened butter or 
lightly whipped cream is combined with them to give body and what the 
French call moelleux or a velvety texture. An electric blender is a great time- 
saver. If you do not have one, pass meat twice through the finest blade of the 
meat grinder (fish may be puréed in a food mill) then beat in the liquids. 

The first recipe in this section may be packed into a decorative bowl and 
served just as it is; the rest must be molded. If they are molded plain, without 
a jelly lining in the mold, they should be glazed with jelly after they are un- 
molded, or with a type of chaud-froid sauce such as the one described for the 
fish mousse on page 563. They may then be decorated with truffles, tarragon 
leaves, jelly cutouts, or, if it is a fish mousse, with designs of shellfish meat. 


HOW TO “CHEMISER UN MOULE” OR LINE A MOLD WITH JELLY 


A mold lined with jelly is one which contains a fairly stiff coating of jel- 
lied stock about % inch thick all over its inside surface. The mousse is packed 
into the lined mold, and chilled. When unmolded, the mousse is encased in a 
shell of jelly. The jelly should be made from clarified stock so it will be clear, 
glistening, and transparent. Recipes for stock, clarification, homemade jellied 
. stock, and jellies made from canned consommé begin on page 106. 

You can roll a mold over cracked ice with spoonfuls of jellied stock until 
an adequate layer of jelly has been built up inside the mold, or you can use the 
following method which we find easier. 


4 cups clarified jelly (jellied The jelly should be fairly stiff; be sure to test it as di- 
stock, page 112, or con- rected in the recipe for jellies before you line your 
sommé with gelatin, page mold. Chill the jelly over cracked ice untii syrupy 


113) and almost set. 
A bowl of cracked ice 


À 4-cup mold, preferably of | Then pour the almost-set jelly into the mold and place 
metal as it is easier to un- the mold in cracked ice. Watch it carefully, and as 
mold soon as a ¥-inch layer of jelly has set around the 


MOLDED MOUSSES 559 


edges of the mold, pour out the unset jelly. If there 
is too thick a layer of jelly in the bottom of the mold, 
scoop it out with a spoon dipped in hot water. 


Chill the mold for about 20 minutes until the jelly lin- 
ing is stiff. Then pack the cold mousse into the mold 
. as directed in whatever recipe you are following. 


DECORATIONS 


If you wish to decorate the bottom of a mold, begin by pouring into it a 
¥ ¢-inch layer of jelly and chill until firm. Choose any of the decorative sug- 
gestions on page 546, or sliced poultry meat, ham, tongue, shrimp, or lobster; 
cut into shapes and chill. Dip into almost-set jelly, and arrange on the jelly in 
the bottom of the mold. Chill until set, then proceed to line the mold with 
jelly as described in the preceding directions. 


HOW TO UNMOLD AN ASPIC 


Dip the mold in very hot water for 3 to 4 seconds (a nonmetal mold will 
require a few seconds longer). Quickly wipe it dry. Invert a chilled serving 
platter over it, and turn upside down. Give it a sharp downward jerk to dis- 
lodge it from the mold to the platter. 

Another method is to invert the mold on a chilled platter, and surround 
the mold with a towel wrung out in very hot water. As soon as the aspic drops, 
remove the mold. 





MOUSSE DE FOIES DE VOLAILLE 
[Chicken Liver Mousse] 


The following mousse may be packed into a decorative jar and used as 
a spread for cocktail appetizers, or molded in aspic for an hors d'oeuvre. It is 
easy to make in an electric blender; if you do not have one, purée the liver in 
a meat grinder or food mill. 

For about 2 cups 


1 lb. or about 2 cups chicken Look the livers over and remove any greenish or 
livers blackish spots. Cut the livers into 14-inch pieces. 


560 


2 Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 

2 Tb butter 

A skillet 


An electric blender 


3 cup Madeira or cognac 


14 cup whipping cream 
Y tsp salt 

18 tsp allspice 

78 tsp pepper 

Pinch of thyme 


2 cup (4 ounces) melted 
butter 


A fairly fine-meshed sieve 
A wooden spoon 
Salt and pepper 


A decorative bowl or jar 
Waxed paper 


CHAPTER NINE: COLD BUFFET 


Sauté with the shallots or green onions in hot butter 
for 2 to 3 minutes, until the livers are just stiffened, 
but still rosy inside. Scrape into the blender jar. 


Pour the wine or cognac into the sauté pan and boil it 


down rapidly’ until it has reduced to 3 tablespoons. 
Scrape it into the blender jar. 


Add the cream and seasonings to the blender jar. 


Cover and blend at top speed for several seconds until 
the liver is a smooth paste. 


Then add the melted butter and blend several seconds 


more. 


Force the mixture through the sieve and taste care- 


fully for seasoning. 


Pack into the bowl or jar, cover with waxed paper, 


and chill for 2 to 3 hours. Or chill until almost set, 
then pack into a mold lined with jelly as described on 
page 558; chill for several hours before unmolding. 


x  MOUSSELINE DE VOLAILLE 
[Mousse of Chicken, Turkey, Duck, or Game] 


This is an excellent way to use up cold fowl, and you may mix several 
kinds together if you wish. Foie gras, liver pâté, or chicken livers, a good stock, 
wine, and careful seasoning give character to the blandness of the meat. If you 
do not have an electric blender, purée the ingredients with a meat grinder. 

For about 6 cups serving 8 to 10 people 


3 Tb minced shallots or 
green onions 

1 Tb butter 

A 4-cup saucepan 

2 cups well flavored poultry 
stock or white stock; 


Cook the shallots or onions slowly with the butter in 


the saucepan for 2 minutes without browning. Add 
the stock and the gelatin mixture, and simmer for 1 
minute. Pour into the blender jar. 


MOLDED MOUSSES 


OR, canned chicken broth 
simmered for 20 minutes 
with 1⁄4 cup of thinly 
sliced carrots, celery, and 
onions, and an herb bou- 
quet, then strained 


2 Tb (2 envelopes) gelatin | 


softened in 1⁄4 cup dry 
white wine or vermouth 
An electric blender 


2 tightly packed cups 
chopped, cooked chicken, 
turkey, duck, or game- 
bird meat 

Y cup foie gras (goose 
liver), or liver paste; 

OR !2 cup chicken livers 
lightly sautéed in butter 

A 3-quart mixing bowl 


2 to 3 Tb cognac or Madeira 
Salt and pepper 
Pinch of nutmeg 


34 cup chilled whipping 
cream 

A chilled bowl 

A chilled wire whip 

Optional: 1 or 2 minced 
truffles 

A 6-cup mold, lightly oiled 
OR an 8-cup mold lined 
with jelly, page 558 


Add the poultry meat and foie gras, liver paste, or 


sautéed livers to the blender. Cover and blend at top 
speed for a minute or two until the ingredients are 
puréed. Pour into the bowl. 


Beat in the cognac or wine to taste, and overseason 


slightly as the cream, which comes later, will mask 
the flavor a bit. Cover and chill until almost set, 
stirring occasionally. 


Following directions on page 580, beat the cream until 


it has doubled in volume and holds its shape softly. 
Fold the cream and optional truffles into the cold 
chicken mixture. Pack into the mold. Cover with 
waxed paper and chill for several hours before un- 
molding. 





VARIATIONS 


Mousse de Jambon 


[Ham Mousse] 


Use the same recipe and ingredients as for the preceding chicken mousse, 
but substitute 214 cups of lean, chopped, boiled ham for the chicken and fote 


562 CHAPTER NINE: COLD BUFFET 


gras; a tablespoon of tomato paste may be added for color. Either 1 or 2 diced 
truffles or 1⁄4 cup minced mushrooms sautéed in butter may be folded into the 
mousse with the cream. 


Mousse de Saumon 


[Salmon Mousse] : 


Use the same recipe and ingredients as for the master recipe, chicken 
mousse, but with 21⁄4 cups of cooked or canned salmon instead of chicken and 
fote gras, and use a white-wine fish stock, page 114 or 115, instead of white 
stock. 


* MOUSSELINE DE POISSON, BLANCHE NEIGE 
[Fish Mousse—with shellfish and chaud-froid sauce] 


This is a handsome cold dish for a first course or luncheon, and looks well 
on a cold buffet table. It is important, however, that you season the mixture 
with care, and use an excellent stock for your jelly, or the flavor of the mousse 
will not be interesting. Instead of molding the mousse, you may heap it into 
individual serving shells, then sauce and decorate them as suggested in the 
recipe. 


If you do not have an electric blender, purée the cooked fish in a food 
mill. 


For about 6 cups serving 8 to 10 people 


3% cups very good white- Place 2 cups of the fish stock with the fish and herb 
wine fish stock, page 114 bouquet in the saucepan. Bring slowly almost to the 
or I15 simmer, cover, and poach the fish at just below the 
(note that 174 cups are to simmer for about 8 minutes, or until just tender when 
be reserved for sauce at pierced with a fork. 
end of recipe) 

34 cup skinless and boneless 
sole or flounder filets 

A small herb bouquet: 2 
parsley sprigs, 1 bay leaf, 
and % tsp thyme tied in 
cheesecloth 

A 2!2-quart enameled sauce- 
pan 


MOLDED MOUSSES 


An electric blender 
A slotted spoon 


12 Ib. diced fresh mush- 


rooms 


2 Tb (2 envelopes) gelatin 
softened in 4 Tb dry 
white vermouth 

Salt and white pepper 

A 2/2-quart mixing bowl 


34 cup chilled whipping 
cream, lightly beaten, 
page 580 

A 6-cup, lightly oiled ring 
mold 

A chilled serving platter 


563 


Remove the fish to the blender jar with a slotted 


spoon. Discard herb beuquet. 





Add the mushrooms to the fish stock in the saucepan. 


Boil slowly for 8 minutes. Strain, set mushrooms 


aside, and return liquid to saucepan. 


Stir the gelatin mixture into the liquid in the saucepan 


and simmer a moment to dissolve the gelatin com- 
pletely. Pour into the blender jar with the fish. Cover 
and blend at top speed for a minute or two until 
puréed. Taste very carefully for seasoning. Pour into 
a bowl, stir in the mushrooms, and chill. Stir occa- 
sionally until cold and almost set. 


Fold the whipped cream into the cold fish mixture, 


and turn into the oiled mold. Cover with waxed pa- 
per and chill for several hours to set. When ready to 
decorate, unmold the mousse on the platter and cover 
with the following sauce. 


Sauce chaud-froid, blanche neige (2 cups) 


The remaining fish stock 
from first paragraph (1% 
cups) 

1% cups whipping cream 

14 tsp tarragon 

1 Tb (1 envelope) gelatin 
softened in 3 Tb dry white 
vermouth 

Salt and white pepper 

A bowl of cracked ice 


14 cups cooked shrimp, 
lobster, or crab meat 
warmed in 1⁄4 cup dry 
white wine or vermouth, 
seasoned with salt and 
pepper, then chilled 

Thin slices of truffle or any 
of the decorative sugges- 
tions on page 546 


Simmer the stock, cream, and tarragon in a saucepan 
until reduced to 2 cups. Stir in the gelatin mixture 
and simmer a moment to dissolve it completely. Cor- 
rect seasoning, and strain. Stir over cracked ice until 
the sauce thickens lightly and is about to set. 


Fold 4 cup of the sauce into the chilled shellfish, and 


place in the center of the mousse. Coat the mousse 
and shellfish with several spoonfuls of sauce. Chill 
for 10 minutes, and repeat with layers of almost-set 
sauce. Immediately after the last application of sauce, 
decorate the mousse with truffles or whatever else you 
have chosen. Chill until serving time. 


564 CHAPTER NINE: COLD BUFFET 





VARIATION 
Mousseline de Crustacés, Blanche Neige | 


[Shellfish Mousse] 


Substitute cooked shellfish meat for the sole or founder in the preceding 
recipe, but omit the simmering of fish in stock, paragraph one. 





PATES AND TERRINES 
Pétés et Terrines 


The memory of a good French páté can haunt you for years. Fortunately 
they are easy to make, and you can even develop your own special pâté maison. 
Do not expect a top-notch mixture to be inexpensive, however, for it will con- 
tain ground pork, pork fat, and usually veal, as well as cognac, port, or Madeira, 
spices, strips or cubes of other meats, game, or liver, and often truffles. If the 
mixture is cooked and served cold in its baking dish it is called either a ¢errine 
or a pâté. If it is molded in a pastry crust, it is a pâté en croûte. A boned chicken, 
turkey, or duck filled with the same type of mixture is a galantine. Pérés and 
terrines will keep for about 10 days under refrigeration; they are fine to have 
on hand for cold impromptu meals, since all you need to serve with them are 
a salad and French bread. 

Wines to serve with pâtés include the dry whites such as Chablis or Mâ- 
con, rosés, or one of the light regional red wines such as Beaujolais or Chinon, 
or a good domestic wine of the same general types. 


A NOTE ON PORK FAT 


Fresh pork fat is an essential ingredient for the type of meat mixture 
which goes into a pété. Blended with the meats, it prevents them from being 
dry and gives them a lighter texture. Cut into thin sheets, bardes de lard, it is 
used to line the inside of the baking dish. The best type is fat back—lard gras. 
This comes from the back of the pig next to the skin. It is firm and does not 
disintegrate as easily as fat from other parts of the animal. Fresh fat back is 
unfortunately difficult to find in America outside of areas catering to special 
clienteles. Alternatives are fat salt pork simmered for 10 minutes in water to 
freshen it and remove the salt, or fat trimmed from fresh ham, or from around 


PÂTÉS AND TERRINES 565 


a fresh pork loin. Thick strips of fat bacon, simmered for 10 minutes in water 
to remove the smoky taste, may be used to line a baking dish. 


‘BAKING DISHES 


Pâtés may be cooked in almost any kind of a baking dish from a special 
rectangular or oval mold called a zerrine, to a soufflé dish, casserole, or bread 
pan. The best materials are glazed pottery, porcelain, enameled iron, or pyrex. 
Cover the meat mixture with aluminum foil, and the dish with a heavy lid; 
old recipes call for a cover held in place with a thick band of flour and water 
paste. 


STORAGE 


Pâtés, terrines, and galantines may be frozen, but they will never again 
have their original texture. Once you have compared the two, you will always 
recognize the somewhat damp quality of thawed páté. If a pâté is to be kept 
for 10 days or more under refrigeration, it should be unmolded after it has 
been chilled and the meat jelly wiped off its surface. It then may be wrapped 
airtight in waxed paper and foil, or returned to its terrine and covered with 
melted pork fat. 


ASPIC 


(Recipes for aspics are on pages 112 to 115; instructions for lining and 
decorating molds start on page 558.) 

To serve a pâté in aspic unmold the pété after it has been chilled, and 
scrape off the layer of pork fat surrounding it. Line the bottom of a slightly 
larger mold with a %-inch layer of jellied stock and chill until set. Place the 
pâté in the mold, and pour almost-set jellied stock around and over it. Chill. 
Unmold on a chilled platter. 

Another system is to slice the chilled pété, arrange it on a platter lined 
with jellied stock, and then glaze the slices with jelly as for the boeuf mode en 
gelée on page 556. 





FARCE POUR PATES, TERRINES, 
ET GALANTINES 


[Pork and Veal Stuffing] 


This good general-purpose meat mixture we shall refer to as a stuffing, 
for that is a translation of the French generic term farce. It can be used as the 


566 CHAPTER NINE: COLD BUFFET 


basis for any type of pâté, terrine, or galantine you wish. Mixed with chestnuts, 
it can also serve as a filling for roast goose or turkey. The pork gives flavor, the 
veal gives lightness. The proportions may be changed according to your own 
ideas, and sautéed liver, ground poultry, or game may be beaten into it. Minced 
truffles are always a good addition, and you can include such things as pis- 
tachios, or strips or cubes of pork fat, tongue, or ham to give a pattern to the 
meat when it is sliced. | 
For about 4 cups 


14 cup very finely minced Cook the onions slowly with the butter in a small 


onions skillet for 8 to ro minutes until they are tender and 
2 Tb butter translucent but not browned. Scrape them into the 
A large mixing bowl mixing bowl. 


12 cup port, Madeira, or co- Pour the wine into the skillet and boil it down until 
gnac reduced by half. Scrape it into the mixing bowl. 


34 lb. (about 14 cups) each, Add all the ingredients to the left, and beat vigorously 
lean pork and lean veal with a wooden spoon until the mixture has lightened 
and ¥% Ib. (1 cup) fresh in texture and is thoroughly blended. Sauté a small 
pork fat, all finely ground  spoonful and taste. Then beat in whatever additions 


together you feel are necessary. It should be perfectly flavored. 
2 lightly beaten eggs If not to be used immediately, cover and refrigerate. 
112 tsp salt 
Vs tsp pepper 
Big pinch of allspice 


12 tsp thyme 

Optional: 1 clove mashed 
garlic 

A wooden spoon 





X TERRINE DE PORC, VEAU, ET JAMBON 
[Pork and Veal Páté with Ham] 


A pork and veal pété with decorative strips of veal and ham buried in its 
slices is the most classic of all pâté mixtures; the three elements blend them- 
selves in a very savory manner. | | 

For about 7 cups 


PÂTÉS AND TERRINES 


567 


Marinating the veal strips 


12 Ib. lean veal from the 
round or filet cut into 
strips 1⁄4 inch thick 

Optional: 2 or 3 canned 
truffles cut into 14-inch 


dice, and juice from can — 


A bowl 

3 Tb cognac 

Big pinch of salt and pepper 

Pinch of thyme 

Pinch of allspice 

1 Tb finely minced shallots 
or green onions 


Molding the paté 


An 8-cup rectangular or oval 
terrine, baking dish, cas- 
serole, or loaf pan 

Sheets of fresh pork fat back 
14 inch thick, or blanched 
fat salt pork, or blanched 
fat bacon, page 15 

4 cups of the preceding pork 
and veal stuffing 

12 lb. lean boiled ham cut 
into strips 1⁄4 inch thick 

1 bay leaf 

A sheet of pork fat or strips 
of blanched bacon to cover 


the páté 
Baking the paté 


Aluminum foil 
A heavy lid for the terrine 
A pan of boiling water 


Marinate the veal and optional truffles and their juice 
in a bowl with the cognac and seasonings while pre- 
paring the other ingredients. Before using, drain the 
strips, and reserve the marinade. 


Preheat oven to 350 degrees. 


Line the bottom and sides of the terrine with the pork 
fat or bacon. Beat marinade into stuffing; divide 
stuffing into three parts. Dip your hands in cold wa- 
ter, and arrange the first third of the stuffing in the 
bottom of the terrine. Cover with half the strips of 
marinated veal alternating with half the strips of ham. 
If using diced truffles, place a row down the center. 
Cover with the second third of the stuffing, and a final 
layer of veal and ham strips, and optional truffles. 
Spread on the last of the meat stuffing. Lay the bay 
leaf on top, and cover with a sheet of pork fat or bacon 
strips. 


Enclose the top of the terrine with aluminum foil, 
cover, and set in the pan of boiling water. The water 
should come about halfway up the outside of the ter- 
rine; add boiling water during cooking, as necessary. 
Set in lower third of preheated oven and bake for 
about 14 hours depending on the shape of the terrine; 


568 CHAPTER NINE: COLD BUFFET 


a long loaf shape will cook faster than a round or oval 
shape. The pâté is done when it has shrunk slightly 
from the sides of the terrine, and the surrounding fat 
and juices are clear yellow with no traces of rosy color. 


Cooling and chilling 


Take the terrine from the water and set it on a plate. Remove lid, and on top of the 
foil covering the pété put a piece of wood, a pan, or a casserole which will just fit into 
the terrine. On or in it, place a 3- to 4-lb. weight or parts of a meat grinder; this will 
pack the pété into the terrine so there will be no air spaces in the meat. Allow the pâté 
to cool at room temperature for several hours or overnight. Then chill it, still 
weighted down. 


Serving 


Serve the pété from its terrine, slicing down through it with a knife. Or unmold it 
and serve on a platter, or decorate in aspic as suggested on page 565. 


VARIATIONS 
Paté de Veau et Porc avec Gibier 
[Game Péré] 


For rabbit, hare, partridge, pheasant, duck, and other game 


1 lb. (about 2 cups) boneless, Following the preceding recipe, cut the game meat 
skinless, raw game into strips 14 inch wide, and marinate them in cognac 
Ingredients for the preced- and seasonings. Grind the smaller pieces and beat 
ing pork and veal pété, them into the stuffing mixture; then proceed with the 
minus the veal strips and recipe. 
ham strips 





Páté de Veau et Porc avec Foie 


[Pork and Veal Pété with Liver] 


Ingredients for the pork and Follow the master recipe, but after cooking the onions 
veal pâté in the preceding for the meat stuffing, cut the liver into 14-inch pieces 
master recipe, minus the and sauté with the onions for 2 to 3 minutes until’the 
veal strips and ham strips liver is slightly stiffened but still rosy inside. Scrape 


PÂTÉS AND TERRINES 569 


1 lb. (about 2 cups) liver: into the mixing bowl, and proceed with the recipe. 
chicken, calf, lamb, pork, (The cognac and other ingredients listed in the recipe 
or beef as a marinade may be beaten into your meat stuffing, 

if you wish.) i 





A NOTE ON GALANTINES 


The boned and stuffed duck in the following recipe would be a galantine 
de canard rather than a canard en croûte if it were stuffed then wrappe in a 
damp towel, poached in meat stock, cooled with a weight over it, chilled, . ad 
glazed with jellied stock. The same system may be used also for large roastin - 
chickens, capons, and turkeys. 


PÂTÉ EN CROÛTE 
[Páté Baked in a Crust] 








Canard en Croûte 


The recipe we have chosen to illustrate pâté en croûte is boned duck 
stuffed, reformed, surrounded with decorated pastry, and baked. The same 
method may be used for any of the pété mixtures previously described, and 
they do not have to be enclosed in duck skin. You may simply heap the mix- 
ture into a loaf on an oval of pastry and enclose it with a second oval. Or you 
may line a spring mold with pastry, pack the mixture into it, and cover with 


570 CHAPTER NINE: COLD BUFFET 


more pastry. All pétés en croûte, in other words, follow the same general out- 
line for forming and baking. 


HOW TO BONE A DUCK, TURKEY, OR CHICKEN 


You may think that boning a fowl is an impossible feat if you have never 
seen it done or thought of attempting it. Although the procedure may take 
45 minutes the first time because of fright, itxan be accomplished in not much 
more than 20 on your second or third try. The object is to remove the flesh 
with the skin from the carcass bones without piercing the skin except at the 
back where the bird is slit open, and at the natural openings at the vent and 
neck. The skin is to serve as a container for the pâté. Laid flat on a board, the 
pâté mixture is heaped onto it,.then the skin is folded over the páté mixture 
and sewed in place. When baked in a ferrine and unmolded, or baked in a 
crust, the sutures are on the bottom, and the pété appears to be enclosed in an 
unbroken, browned casing—which is the skin. It is always an impressive sight. 
The important thing to remember is that the cutting edge of your knife must 
always face the bone, never the flesh, thus you cannot pierce the skin. 

To begin with, cut a deep slit down the back of the bird from the neck 
to the tail, to expose the backbone. With a small, sharp knife, its edge always 
cutting against the bone, scrape and cut the flesh from the carcass bones down 
one side of the bird, pulling the flesh away from the carcass with your fingers 
as you cut. When you come to the ball joints connecting the wings and the 
second joints to the carcass, sever them, and continue down the carcass until 
you reach just the ridge of the breast where skin and bone meet. Then stop. 
You must be careful here, as the skin is thin and easily slit. Repeat the same 
operation on the other side of the bird. By the time you have completed half 
of this, the carcass frame, dangling legs, wings, and skin will appear to be an 
unrecognizable mass of confusion and you will wonder how in the world any 
sense can be made of it all. But just continue cutting against the bone, and not 
slitting any skin, and all will come out as it should. When you finally arrive 
at the ridge of the breastbone on this opposite side, stop again. Then lift the 
carcass frame and cut very closely against the ridge of the breastbone to free 
the carcass, but not to slit the thin skin covering the breastbone. Chop off the 
wings at the elbows, to leave just the upper wing bones attached. 

Then arrange this mass of skin and flesh on a board, flesh side up. You 
will now see, protruding from the flesh, the pair of ball joints of the wings and 
of the two second joints. Scrape the meat from the bones of the wings and pull 
out the bones. Repeat for the second joints, severing them from the ball joints 
of the drumsticks; the drumstick bones may be left in place if you wish. Dis- 


PÂTÉS AND TERRINES 


571 


card any bits of fat adhering to the flesh, and the bird is ready to become a 


pâté or a galantine. 





PATE DE CANARD EN CROÛTE 
[Boned Stuffed Duck Baked in a Pastry Crust] 


For 12 people 
Stuffing the duck 


A 5-lb. ready-to-cook roaster 
duckling 

12 tsp salt 

78 tsp pepper 

Pinch of allspice 

2 Tb cognac 

2 Tb port 

Optional: 2 or 3 diced 
canned truffles and their 
juice 


4 cups pork and veal stuff- 
ing, page 565 


A trussing needle 
White string 


Boned duck 
with stuffing 


Bone the duck as described in the preceding para- 
graphs, and lay the boned bird skin-side down on a 
board. Slice off the thickest layers of breast and thigh 
meat, and cut into cubes about %% inch across. Place 
the cubes back on the duck, season, and sprinkle with 
cognac and port. Add the optional truffles and their 
juice. Roll up the duck, place it in a bowl, and re- 
frigerate. 


Prepare the meat stuffing and mix into it the cubed 
duck meat, optional truffles, and marinade. 


Spread the boned duck on a board, skin-side down. 
Heap the stuffing in the center and shape it into a 





NOTE: In this and following drawings, wings bones and drumsticks have not 


been removed. 





572 CHAPTER NINE: COLD BUFFET 














Duck skin folded 
around stuffing 
loaf. Bring the duck skin up over the loaf to enclose 
it completely. Sew it in place with a trussing needle 
Sewing the 
duck 
Duck ready 


for browning 








PÂTÉS AND TERRINES 


3 Tb cooking oil 
A large skillet 


Forming the crust 


6 cups (11% lbs.) all-purpose 
flour 

14 cup (2 ounces) vegetable 
shortening 

12 cup (4 ounces) butter 

1, tsp salt 

V4 tsp sugar 

2 eggs 

About 73 cup cold water 


A greased baking sheet 
A pastry brush 


573 


and white string. Make 3 or 4 ties around the circum- 
ference of the duck to give it a cylindrical shape. 


Heat the oil in the skillet until it is almost smoking. 
Then brown the duck slowly on all sides. Remove, 
and allow it to cool. The trussing strings remain on 


the duck to hold its shape while baking. 


Following directions on page 139, prepare a chilled 
pastry dough with the ingredients at the left. 


Preheat oven to 400 degrees. 


Roll two thirds of the pastry dough into an oval 4 
inch thick. Lay it on the baking sheet. Place the duck 





Duck in bottom 
pastry oval 


1 egg beaten with 1 tsp cold 
water in a small bowl 





on the oval, breast up. Bring the pastry up around the 
duck, patting it into place. Roll out the rest of the 
dough ¥% inch thick and cut it into an oval to fit over 
the top of the duck. Paint the edges of the bottom 
pastry oval with a pastry brush dipped in beaten egg, 


574 CHAPTER NINE: COLD BUFFET 





Pressing pastry 
ovals together 








and press the top oval in place. Flute or pinch the 
edges together to seal them. 


Make circles or ovals with a 14-inch cooky cutter in the remaining pastry, and press 
fan-shaped lines into them with the back of a knife. 


se 

Pastry cut-outs C} 
: © 

c'e 





V 





Paint the top pastry oval with beaten egg, and press the pastry cutouts over it in a 
decorative design. Paint with beaten egg. 


Make a /%-irich hole in the center of the pastry and insert a brown paper or foil 
funnel; this will allow cooking steam to escape. Insert a meat thermometer into the 
hole through the funnel, and down through the duck skin into the pété. 


PÂTÉS AND TERRINES 575 





The duck is ready for the 


oven 








Baking the pâté 


Place the duck in the middle position of the preheated oven, and turn the heat down 
to 350 degrees. Bake for about 2 hours, or to a thermometer reading of 180 degrees. 


Remove from oven and allow to cool for several hours; the crust will soften if the 
pâté is refrigerated too soon. Then chill. 


TO SERVE 


A little preliminary work in the kitchen will enable you to present your 
duck with the elegance and drama it deserves. Before bringing it to the table, 
then, cut around the crust just under the seam of the top pastry oval; lift the 
oval off carefully so as not to break it. The duck will have shrunk from the 
crust during its baking, so you can lift it out of the bottom crust. Remove the 
circular trussing strings from around the duck, then cut and pull out the sew- 
ing strings underneath the duck. 

If carving is to take place at the table, put the duck back into the bottom 
crust and replace the top pastry oval. The carver will then decide whether to 
remove the duck from the crust and carve it as suggested farther on, or whether 
to cut right down through the crust and through the duck, making crosswise 
slices of duck with crust. 

If the duck is to be carved before serving, follow either of the two meth- 
ods in the next paragraph, then reconstruct the duck in its bottom crust, and 
replace the top pastry oval. 

To carve the duck after removing it from the crust, either make crosswise 


576 CHAPTER NINE: COLD BUFFET 


slices as though you were cutting a sausage, or make a deep incision the length 
of the breast, and cut lengthwise slices angled toward the center of the duck 
on each side. 


NNN —— 


OTHER COLD DISHES 


Here is a list of cold dishes which are described as hot elsewhere in the 
book. 


Eggs 

Oeufs brouillés pipérade, scrambled eggs garnished with a pipérade (the 
cooked green peppers, onions, and tomatoes used for omelette pipérade on 
page 137). The pipérade is mixed into the eggs after they have been scrambled ; 
the eggs are chilled, and used to fill tomato cases. 


Fish 


Thon à la provençale, tuna or swordfish baked with tomatoes, wine, and 
herbs, page 219 


Poultry 


Poulet grillé à la diable, broiled chicken with herbs, mustard, and bread 
crumbs, page 265 

Poulet sauté and poulet sauté aux herbes de Provence, either of these 
two recipes for sautéed chicken beginning on page 254, without the sauce 

Poulet poélé à l’estragon, casserole-roasted chicken with tarragon, page 
249. This is one of the best ways to cook a whole chicken that is to be served 
cold. 

Canard à l'orange, duck with orange, page 276, or with the other fruits 
suggested in the recipes following it. The sauce is made according to the direc- 
tions in the recipe but, instead of thickening the sauce with arrowroot, dissolve 
gelatin in it (1 tablespoon or 1 envelope for each 2 cups), and glaze the duck 
as in the recipe for poulet en gelée à l’estragon, page 549. 


Beef 


Daube de boeuf, casserole of beef with wine, herbs, and vegetables, page 
322. 


OTHER COLD DISHES 577 


Lamb 


Moussaka, lamb and eggplant baked in a mold lined with eggplant skins, 
then unmolded, page 349. This makes a handsome cold dish, and is an excellent 
way to use up cold roast lamb. 


Pork and Veal 


Veau poélé or rôti de porc poélé, casserole-roasted veal with herbs, page 
353, or pork, page 380. Both of these are good cold, and if you wish to dress 
them up, slice the meat and spread each slice with beurre Montpellier (green 
herb mayonnaise with butter, anchovies, pickles, and capers, page 90), reform 
the roast, and spread with a covering of the mayonnaise. Chill before serving. 

Veau Sylvie or porc Sylvie, veal marinated in wine then stuffed with ham 
and cheese before roasting, page 357, or pork treated in the same manner, page 


385. 


Ham 
Jambon braisé au Madère, ham braised in Madeira wine, page 393. See 
also the recipes following it, for ham braised with mushroom stuffing, and ham 


in a pastry crust. All of these are good cold, and a pleasant change from plain 
cold, baked or boiled ham. 


Sweetbreads and Brains 

Ris de veau braisés or cervelles braisés, braised sweetbreads, page 409, 
or brains, page 415. Either may be dressed with vinaigrette and herbs and used 
as a cold meat dish, or as part of a combination salad. 


Artichokes 

Artichauts au naturel or fonds d'artichauts à blanc, cold boiled arti- 
chokes, page 424, or cooked artichoke bottoms, page 430. Either of these may be 
served with vinaigrette or mayonnaise. You may fill cold, cooked artichoke 
bottoms with vegetables, meat, poultry, or fish in mayonnaise; you could also 
fill them with one of the aspics or mousses described in this chapter. 


Eggplant 


Aubergines farcies duxelles, eggplant cases stuffed with mushrooms, 
page 501. These go well with cold, roast lamb. 

Ratatouille, eggplant casserole with tomatoes, onions, and zucchini, page 
503. This dish is just as good cold as it is hot, and is especially recommended 


578 CHAPTER NINE: COLD BUFFET 


with cold roast lamb, beef, pork, chicken, and fish. A bit of leftover ratatouille 
may be passed through a food mill with hard-boiled egg yolks to make a filling 
for stuffed eggs or stuffed tomatoes. 


Celery and Leeks 


Céleris braisés and poireaux braisés, braised celery, page 491, braised 
leeks, page 495. Either of these may be part of a cold vegetable combination, 
or be served with cold meats. 


Potatoes 


Gratin de pommes de terre provençale, potato and tomato casserole with 
anchovies, page 525. Serve this with cold meats or fish. 


Rice Salads 


Cooked rice as a base for many salads and impromptu meals; ideas and 
one full recipe, page 532. 


CHAPTER TEN 


DESSERTS AND CAKES 


Entremets et Gâteaux 


FUNDAMENTAL TECHNIQUES 
AND INFORMATION 


On: OR SEVERAL of the following processes will be a part of almost any 
dessert or cake recipe you encounter. Some can be accomplished by machine, 
others are better performed by hand. None is difficult, but all contribute to the 
success of your dish and must be done precisely. 


EGG WHITES 


Innumerable desserts, as well as soufflés and all the spongecakes, call for 
stiffly beaten egg whites. Successful cooking of any of these dishes is usually 
dependent on how voluminous and stiff you have beaten the egg whites, and 
how carefully you have folded them into the rest of the ingredients. As they 
are so important, we shall continually put in little reminders and warnings 
about them. Directions and illustrations for egg whites begin on page 159, in 
the Entrée chapter. You will note that in all the recipes for beaten egg whites 
in this chapter a tablespoon of sugar is whipped into them near the end of the 
beating; this gives them an added bit of stiffness and body. You will also note 
that egg whites may be folded into either a hot or a cold sauce or batter; unlike 
whipped cream, which liquefies when it comes in contact with hot ingredients, 
egg whites are actually given a boost. 


BEATING EGGS AND SUGAR TO FORM THE RIBBON 


Whenever egg yolks and sugar are beaten together the recipe will say to 
continue beating “until the mixture is pale yellow and forms the ribbon.” This 


580 CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 


prepares the egg yolks so that they can be heated without turning granular. 
To accomplish it, add the sugar gradually to the egg yolks in a mixing bowl 
while beating with a wire whip or an electric beater; continue beating for 2 
to 3 minutes. The mixture will turn a pale, creamy yellow, and thicken enough 
so that when a bit is lifted in the beater, it will fall back into the bowl forming 
a slowly dissolving ribbon on the surface of the mixture. Do not beat beyond 
this point or the egg yolks may become granular. 


WHIPPED CREAM 


As used in French cooking, whipped cream should double in volume, 
and be light, smooth, and free from granules. Much the same principles apply 
to it as to the beating of egg whites, in that you must incorporate as much air 
as possible. The stationary electric beater never produces as smooth and light 
a cream as could be wished; the electric blender is not recommended at all. 
For success every time, beat your chilled heavy cream with a large balloon 
whip or hand-held electric beater in a large metal bowl set in another, larger 
bow] containing a tray of ice cubes and water to cover them. It will take you 4 
to 5 minutes to whip cream until the beater leaves light traces on the surface, and 
worth every minute to achieve an unbelievably beautiful and tender texture. 

W arning 

If whipped cream is to be folded into other ingredients, be sure the other 
ingredients are cold; otherwise the cream will lose its stiffness and thin out. 


A note on French cream 


Although French créme fraiche and American whipping cream both 
contain approximately the same amount of butter fat, the consistency of French 
cream is thicker because it is slightly fermented. It must be thinned before 
whipping by the addition of 1 part of cold milk, iced water, or shaved ice for 
every 3 parts of cream. 





Crème Chantilly 
[Lightly Beaten Cream] 


This is lightly beaten cream, which is usually specified for such desserts 
as Bavarian cream, and for dessert sauces. : 
For about 2 cups 


FUNDAMENTALS 581 


1% pint ( cup) chilled whip- Pour the cream into the bowl set over ice, and beat it 
ping cream slowly until it begins te foam, while circulating the 
A 3-quart metal bowl set beater all around the bowl and lifting the cream as 
over a bowl with ice cubes : you whip it. Gradually increase the beating speed to 
and water to cover them moderate and continue until the beater leaves light 
A large balloon whip or a traces on the surface of the cream. A bit of cream 
portable electric beater ‘lifted and dropped on the surface will softly retain its 
shape. 
Stffly beaten cream 
For desserts which require more body, continue beating a few seconds 
more until the cream is a little bit stiffer and forms soft peaks. Do not beat be- 
yond this stage or the cream will become granular, and then begin to turn into 
butter. 
Storing whipped cream 
Once cream is whipped, it will keep for several hours under refrigeration. 
As it usually exudes a bit of liquid, it is a good idea to turn it into a fine-meshed 
sieve and place the sieve over a bowl. This allows any seeping liquid to drop 
out of the cream. 
Flavored whipped cream 
Before serving, fold in 2 tablespoons of sifted powdered sugar and a 
tablespoon or two of brandy, rum, or sweet liqueur, or a teaspoon or two of 
vanilla extract. 


CREAMING BUTTER AND SUGAR 


Numerous dessert and cake recipes direct that butter and sugar be 
creamed together; this may be accomplished either by machine or by hand. 

Electric Beater Use the pastry-blender attachment if you have one; 
you may use the regular beater, but the blades will become clogged. Cut the 
butter into 14-inch pieces. Warm the large mixing bowl in hot water. Dry it, 
add the butter and sugar, and beat at a moderate speed for several minutes. 
The mixture is ready to be used when it 1s light, fluffy, and a pale ivory color. 

Hand Beating If the butter has been left at room temperature for an 
hour to soften, simply beat the butter and sugar together in a bow] for several 
minutes until they form a light, fluffy mass. For cold, hard butter, use the fol- 
lowing system: Cut the butter into 44-inch pieces and place it with the sugar 
in a mixing bowl set over barely simmering water. Beat with a wooden spoon 
for several seconds until the butter softens. Then set the bowl in a basin of 


582 CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 


cold water and beat for a minute or two until the mixture is light, fluffy, and 
a pale ivory color. 
MELTED CHOCOLATE 


Because baking chocolate burns easily, it needs special treatment. We find 
it best to break the chocolate into small pieces (or use chocolate drops: 2 ounces 
make 1 cup). Place the chocolate in a small covered saucepan by itself, or 
with the liquid specified in your recipe; set the pan in another, larger pan of 
simmering water, and at once remove the larger pan from heat. In 4 to 5 min- 
utes your chocolate will be perfectly melted and smooth. Keep it in the warm 
water until ready to use. 


* ALMONDS 


Whole, slivered, and powdered almonds have many uses in French pas- 
tries and desserts. Luckily you can buy blanched almonds in airtight cans at 
almost any American market, and although you do not often see powdered 
almonds, they pulverize easily in the blender or processor. You will note that all 
the recipes which use almonds also call for a bit of almond extract to bring out 
the almond taste. This is not necessary in France, as one or two bitter almonds 
are always included. But as the oil of bitter almonds is poisonous when taken 
in too large a quantity, it can only be bought with a doctor’s prescription in 
this country. But be careful with almond extract. It is strong; a few drops or a 
quarter teaspoon are usually sufficient. 

Measurements Four ounces of whole, broken, or powdered almonds 
are equivalent to about 34 cup or 125 grams. 

Blanched Almonds Drop shelled almonds into boiling water and boil 
I minute. Drain. Squeeze each almond between the thumb and forefinger, 
and the almond will slip out of its skin. Spread the blanched almonds in a 
roasting pan and dry them out for 5 minutes in a 350-degree oven. 

Pulverized Almonds These are most easily done in the blender or pro- 
cessor, and should always be ground ¥, cup at a time for the blender (x cup for 
the processor) with several tablespoons of sugar to prevent them from becom- 
ing oily and lumpy, which would make them impossible to combine with 
other dry ingredients. | 

Toasted or Grilled Almonds Spread whole, slivered, or powdered 
almonds in a roasting pan and set in a 350-degree oven for about 10 minutes. 
Stir them up frequently and keep an eye on them so they do not burn. They 
should emerge an even, light, toasty brown. 


FUNDAMENT ALS 583 


—— 


Pralin 


[Caramelized Almonds] 


This delicious ingredient is quickly made and can be stored for weeks 
in a screw-topped jar. It is used in desserts and sauces, as a sprinkling for ice 
cream, and as a flavoring for cake icings and fillings. In France, pralin is also 
made with hazel nuts or a mixture of hazel nuts and almonds. 

For about 1 cup 


72 cup slivered or powdered Toast the almonds in a 350-degree oven as previously 
almonds described. 


12 cup granulated sugar Boil the sugar and water in a small saucepan until the 
2 Tb water sugar caramelizes (see directions for caramel farther 
An oiled marble slab or on). Immediately stir in the toasted almonds. Bring 

large baking sheet just to the boil, then pour onto the marble or baking 


sheet. When cold, in about 10 minutes, break the 
hardened mass into pieces. Pulverize in the electric 
blender, pound to a coarse powder in a mortar, or put 
it through a meat grinder. 


Pulverized Macaroons 


Pulverized stale macaroons may be substituted for pralin. Break maca- 
roons into small pieces, spread them in a roasting pan, and set in a 200-de- 
gree oven for about an hour. Remove when they are fairly dry and lightly 
browned; they will crisp up as they cool. When crisped, pulverize them in the 
electric blender, pound in a mortar, or put them through a meat grinder. Store 
in a screw-topped jar where they will keep for weeks. 


Caramel 
[Caramel] 


Caramel is sugar syrup cooked until it turns a light, nut brown. It is used 
as a flavoring or coloring, or for coating a mold. 
For about 2 cup 


584 CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 





24 cup granulated sugar or until sugar has dissolved completely and liquid is per- 


crushed sugar lumps fectly clear. Cover the pan (steam condensing on 
13 cup water cover will wash any crystals off sides of pan). Boil 
A small, heavy saucepan without stirring until syrup is thick and turns a light 
(with cover) nutty brown (keep peeking). 





Remove from heat just before desired color is reached 
because syrup will continue to darken (or plunge pan 
into cold water). Caramel may be reheated. 


I  . ———— 


Caramel Syrup 


Pour 14 cup of water into the preceding caramel and simmer, stirring, 
until the caramel has dissolved. 





HOW TO LINE A MOLD WITH CARAMEL 
Un Moule Caramelisé 
[A Caramel-lined Mold] 


Custard desserts are often baked in a mold lined with caramel so that 
the dessert will be covered with a brown glaze when unmolded. You may make 
the caramel directly in the mold when you are using a metal one such as the 
charlotte illustrated for soufflés on page 162. If you are using porcelain, make 
the caramel separately. Metal takes a caramel lining more evenly than porce- 
lain, and the dessert is usually easier to unmold. We therefore suggest you buy 
metal molds if you plan to do many desserts of this type. After unmolding the 
dessert, you will be directed by your recipe to add a little liquid to the mold 
and simmer it to dissolve the remaining caramel; set the mold over an asbestos 
mat, if you are using fireproof porcelain, or omit this step. 


For a 6-cup metal mold 


? 


2 cup granulated sugar or Boil the sugar and water in the mold over moderate 


crushed sugar lumps heat, swirling the mold frequently, until the syrup 
2 Tb water caramelizes. At once, dip the mold in the cold water 
A pan of cold water for 2 to 3 seconds to cool it very slightly. Then tilt the 


A plate mold in all directions to film the bottom and sides 


FUNDAMENTALS 585 


with caramel. When the caramel has ceased to run, 
turn the mold upside down over a plate. This is now 
a caramelized mold. ~*, 


For a fireproof porcelain .mold (or cup-custard molds or ramekins) 


Make the caramel in a saucepan. While it is cooking, warm the porcelain mold 
in a pan of hot water; remove it as soon as the caramel is done. Pour in the caramel 
and tilt the mold in all directions to film its bottom and sides. When the caramel has 
ceased to run, reverse the mold on a plate. . 


Charlotte Malakoff 





HOW TO LINE A MOLD WITH LADYFINGERS 


Some of the grand desserts such as the charlotte Malakoff, page 605, the 
diplomate, page 612, and the charlotte Chantilly, page 608, call for a mold lined 
with ladyfingers. Any kind of a cylindrical mold or dish will do for the opera- 
tion, but the dessert will be more spectacular if your mold is the charlotte type 
3% to 4 inches deep, like that illustrated in the Soufflé section on page 162. 
Some recipes direct that the ladyfingers be dipped first in diluted liqueur; 
others do not. The procedure for lining the mold is the same in either case. 

Warning 

Do not attempt any dessert calling for a mold lined with ladyfingers 
unless you have ladyfingers of premium quality—dry and tender, not spongy 
and limp. Inferior ladyfingers, unfortunately the only kind usually available 
in bakeries, will debase an otherwise remarkable dessert. The recipe for home- 
made ladyfingers is on page 666. 


586 CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 





Lining the bottom 
of the mold 





Cut the ladyfingers into a design of wedges to fit the bottom of the mold ex- 
actly. Lay them in the mold, their curved sides down. 







NN 


NN 


te 
hey 


Lining the sides 
of the mold 





Place a row of ladyfingers upright and pressed together, their curved sides 
against the sides of the mold. If your mold slants outward, you may have to trim the 
edges of the ladyfingers to make them slightly wedge-shaped. 

The mold is now ready for filling, as directed in your recipe. 


HOW TO UNMOLD A DESSERT 


Many other desserts in this chapter, besides those with ladyfingers in the 
preceding paragraphs, are formed or baked in a mold, and are unmolded*for 
serving. The easiest way to unmold them is: place a serving dish upside down 


FUNDAMENT ALS 5 87 


over the mold and reverse the two quickly so the dish rests over a flat surface, 
give a sharp, downward jerk to dislodge the dessert, then remove the mold. 


a 


Vanilla 


We have specified vanilla extract in all of the dessert and cake recipes. If 
you prefer to use the bean, steep it for 20 minutes in whatever hot liquid you 
are using. Sugar with a mild vanilla flavor is made by burying a vanilla bean 
for a week or so in a screw-topped jar with 1 pound of granulated sugar. For 
a strong flavor, pulverize 14 ounce or 2 whole vanilla beans in a mortar with 
14 pound or about 34 cup of sugar lumps, then pass through a very fine-meshed 
sieve. If you use an electric blender for this, allow the pulverized mixture to 
stand in a closed jar for a week or so before sieving it. 





Glazed Orange or Lemon Peel 


This provides a nice decoration and is easy to make. 
For about 12 cup 


5 lemons or 3 bright-skinned Remove the colored part of the lemon or orange skin 

oranges with a vegetable peeler. Cut into julienne strips 114 

A vegetable peeler inches long and 146 inch wide. Simmer in water for 

x quart of simmering water 10 to 12 minutes or until just tender when bitten. 
Drain. Refresh in cold water. Dry on paper towels. 


1 cup granulated sugar Boil the sugar and water in a small saucepan to the 
13 cup water thread stage (230 degrees). Remove from heat. Stir in 
A candy thermometer, if the drained peel and the vanilla. Let the peel stand 

possible in the syrup for at least 30 minutes. Drain when ready 
1 tsp vanilla extract to use. Under refrigeration, the peel will keep in the 


syrup for several weeks. 


ooo o ————————— 


Flour 


Be sure to measure your flour correctly. This is especially important for 
cakes. All recipes are based on the flour-measuring method described on page 


17. 


588 CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 





SWEET SAUCES AND FILLINGS 


Sauces Sucrées et Crèmes 


Crème anglaise, a light custard sauce, and crème pâtissière, a thick custard 
filling, are fundamental to French desserts and pastries. Both are quick to do, 
and should definitely be in anyone’s repertoire. 





CREME ANGLAISE, 
[Light Custard Sauce] 


This sauce is a blend of egg yolks, sugar, and milk stirred over heat until 
it thickens into a light cream. If it comes near the simmer, the yolks will 
scramble. Although it can be omitted, a very small amount of starch in the 
sauce acts as a safeguard just in case the heat becomes too much for the egg 
yolks. Some recipes direct that the sauce be cooked in a double boiler; this is 
slow work and quite unnecessary if you concentrate on what you are doing, 
and use a heavy-bottomed saucepan. A candy thermometer is a useful guide. 

Vanilla is the basic flavoring for crème anglaise; others are added to the 
vanilla if you wish, such as coffee, liqueurs, or chocolate. The sauce is served 
either warm or chilled, depending on your dessert. Less rich than cream, crème 
anglaise is used on fruit desserts, molded creams, puddings, ice cream, or ac- 
companies any dessert where it could be substituted for cream. With addi- 
tional egg yolks and with heavy cream, it becomes the custard used for ice 
creams. Also with more egg yolks, plus gelatin, whipped cream, and flavor- 
ing, it is ready to be a Bavarian cream. 

For about 2 cups 


1% cup granulated sugar Gradually beat the sugar into the egg yolks and con- 
4 egg yolks tinue beating for 2 to 3 minutes until the mixture is 
A 3-quart mixing bowl pale yellow and forms the ribbon, page 579. 
A wire whip or electric 

beater 


Optional: 1 tsp cornstarch Beat in the optional starch. - 
or potato starch 


SAUCES, FILLINGS, AND GLAZES 


1% cup boiling milk 


A clean, heavy-bottomed 
enameled or stainless steel 
saucepan 

A wooden spatula or spoon 

Optional but recommended: 
a candy thermometer 


Flavorings 


1 Tb vanilla extract 

OR, 1 tsp vanilla extract and 
1 Tb rum, kirsch, cognac, 
orange liqueur, or instant 
coffee 

OR, 2 or 3 ounces or squares 
of semisweet baking choc- 
olate melted in the boiling 
milk, and 1 tsp vanilla ex- 
tract stirred into the fin- 
ished sauce 


Crème Bralée 


589 


While beating the yolk mixture, very gradually pour 


on the boiling milk in a thin stream of droplets so 
that the yolks are slowly-warmed. 





Pour the mixture into the saucepan and set over mod- 
erate heat, stirring slowly and continuously with a 


. wooden spatula or spoon, and reaching all over the 


bottom and sides of the pan, until the sauce thickens 
just enough to coat the spoon with a light, creamy 
layer. Do not let the custard come anywhere near the 
simmer. Maximum temperature is 165 degrees on the 
candy thermometer (170 if you have used starch). 
Then beat the sauce off heat for a minute or two to 
cool it. Strain it through a fine sieve, and beat in one 
of the flavorings at the left. 


To serve hot: Keep the sauce over warm but not hot 
water. If you wish, beat in 1 to 2 tablespoons of un- 
salted butter just before serving. 


To serve cold: Set the saucepan in a pan of cold water, 
and stir frequently until cool. Then cover and chill. 


Crème brúlée originated in England, it appears, at Christ’s College in 
Cambridge. Make the basic cream exactly like the preceding créme anglaise, 
but use half the amount of sugar, and whipping cream instead of milk. Chill 


590 CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 


in a serving dish. Rather than glazing the top of the cream with brown sugar, 
try spreading a 14-inch layer of pralin, page 583, over the cream. This would 
then be a créme anglaise pralinée, and is good as a dessert either by itself or 
served with strawberries. 





CREME PATISSIERE an 
[Custard Filling] 


This custard is also made of egg yolks, sugar, and milk, but unlike créme 
anglaise, it contains flour so it may be brought to the boil, and is much thicker. 
The proportions of flour vary according to the use of the filling; the following 
recipe is designed as a base for fruit tarts. With the addition of beaten egg 
whites it becomes a créme Saint-Honoré and may be used as a filling for cream 
puffs, or may be mixed with fruit to make a quick dessert like the plombières 
on page 594. 

For about 212 cups 


s cup granulated sugar Gradually beat the sugar into the egg yolks and con- 


5 egg yolks tinue beating for 2 to 3 minutes until the mixture is 
A 3-quart mixing bowl pale yellow and forms the ribbon, page 579. 
A wire whip or electric 

beater 


72 cup flour (scooped and Beatin the flour. 
leveled, see page 17) 


a cups boiling milk Beating the yolk mixture, gradually pour on the boil- 
ing milk in a thin stream of droplets. 


A clean, heavy-bottomed Pour into saucepan and set over moderately high heat. 
2¥2-quart, enameled sauce- Stir with wire whip, reaching all over bottom of pan. 
pan As sauce comes to the boil it will get lumpy, but will 

A wire whip smooth out as you beat it. When boil is reached, beat 

over moderately low heat for 2 to 3 minutes to cook 
the flour. Be careful custard does not scorch in bottom 





of pan. 
1 Tb butter Remove from heat and beat in the butter, then one of 
Flavorings the flavorings at the left. If the custard is not used im- 


1% Tb vanilla extract mediately, clean it off the sides of the pan, and dot top 


SAUCES, FILLINGS, AND GLAZES S9I 


OR, 2 tsp vanilla extract 
and 2 to 3 Tb rum, kirsch, 
cognac, orange liqueur, or 
instant coffee 

OR, 3 ounces or squares of 
semisweet baking choco- 
late melted with 2 Tb rum 
or coffee and 2 tsp vanilla 
extract 

OR, !2 cup pulverized al- 
monds, page 582, or pul- 
verized macaroons, page 
583, 14 tsp almond extract, 
and 2 tsp vanilla extract 


of custard with softened butter to prevent a skin from 
forming over the surface. Crème pdtissiére will keep 
for a week under refrigeration, or may be frozen. 


CREME SAINT-HONORE 
[Custard Filling with Beaten Egg Whites] 


A crème pâtissière with the addition of stiffly beaten egg whites is used 
as a filling for tarts and cream puffs, and as a dessert cream. It is flavored with 
chocolate, liqueurs, grated orange peel, pralin, or whatever your recipe calls for. 


For 5 to 6 cups 


212 cups crème pâtissière 
E egg whites 

Big pinch of salt 

2 Tb granulated sugar 


Make the crème pâtissière as directed in the preceding 


recipe. Beat in the flavorings you have chosen. Beat 
the egg whites and salt together until soft peaks are 
formed; sprinkle on the sugar and continue beating 
until stiff peaks are formed, page 159. Stir one quar- 
ter of the egg whites into the hot custard, fold in the 
rest. If the cream is to be served cold, chill it in the 
refrigerator. 





FRANGIPANE 


| Almond Custard Filling] 


This is a very thick type of crème pâtissière with crushed macaroons or 
powdered almonds. Use it as a filling for crépes or tarts. Any leftover frangi- 
pane may be mixed with an equal amount of crème pâtissière and used as a 


filling. 
For about 2 cups 


592 


A wire whip or electric 
beater 

I egg 

1 egg yolk 

A 3-quart mixing bowl 

34 cup granulated sugar 

1, cup flour (scooped and 
leveled, see page 17) 

1 cup boiling milk 


A clean, heavy-bottomed, 
2/2-quart, enameled sauce- 
pan 

A wire whip 

A wooden spoon 


3 Tb butter 

2 tsp vanilla extract 

14 tsp almond extract 

2 cup pulverized maca- 
roons, page 583, or pul- 
verized almonds, page 582 

Optional: 2 to 3 Tb kirsch 


FRUIT SAUCES 


CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 


Beat the egg and egg yolk in the mixing bowl, gradu- 


ally adding the sugar, until mixture is pale yellow and 
forms the ribbon, page 579. Beat in the flour. Then 
beat in the boiling milk in a thin stream of droplets. 


Pour into saucepan and set over moderate heat. Stir 


slowly with the whip, reaching all over the bottom of 
the pan. When mixture begins to coagulate into 
lurnps, beat it vigorously until it smooths and thickens 
into a stiff paste. Then over moderately low heat, beat 
it with a wooden spoon for 2 to 3 minutes to cook the 
flour thoroughly. Be careful the custard does not 
scorch on the bottom of the pan. 





Off heat, beat in the butter, then the flavorings, maca- 
roons or almonds, and optional kirsch. If not used 
immediately, clean custard off sides of pan and dot top 
with softened butter to prevent a skin from forming 
on the surface. Frangipane will keep for a week under 
refrigeration, or may be frozen. 


Fruit sauces are made from purées of fresh or frozen fruits, or from fruit 
jams and jellies. They are used with ice creams, custard desserts, and various 


puddings. 


x quart fresh strawberries or 
raspberries 


Sauce aux Fraises 


[Fresh Strawberry Sauce] 


Sauce aux Framboises 


[Fresh Raspberry Sauce] 
For about 2 cups 


Hull, wash, drain, and sieve the fruit. Add sugar to 
taste. Either whip for 2 to 3 minutes in a blender, or 


SAUCES, FILLINGS, AND GLAZES 593 


A sieve and wooden spoon beat for 10 minutes with an electric beater. The sugar 
% to 174 cups sugar (instant should dissolve completely; the purée will be quite 
or very finely granulated thick. Beat in kirsch, cognac, or lemon juice to taste. 
if possible) 
An electric blender or an 
electric beater 
2 to 3 Tb kirsch, cognac, or 
lemon juice 


Made with frozen berries 


Thaw the berries and drain them thoroughly. Force them through a sieve, and 
beat in some of their syrup to thin out the purée. Flavor with kirsch, cognac, or 
lemon juice. 


Made with jam, preserves, or jelly (about 1 cup) 


Y, cup orange marmalade Stir the mixture in a saucepan over moderate heat un- 
and ¥2 cup apricot pre- til melted. Simmer for a moment with the liqueur, 
serves then force through a sieve. 

OR, !2 cup strawberry or 
raspberry jam and 1⁄2 cup 
red currant jelly 

2 to 3 Tb kirsch or cognac 

A sieve and wooden spoon 


STRAINED APRICOT PRESERVES 


Before using apricot preserves (or jam) in a recipe, stir it over heat, if 
necessary, until it has melted, then rub it through a sieve to leave the bits of 
skin behind. If not used immediately, it will keep almost indefinitely in its 
original container. 


GLAZES 


Either apricot preserves or red currant jelly contains enough pectin so 
that when boiled to between 225 and 228 degrees it will stiffen slightly as it 
cools and not be sticky to the touch. You may then use it as a glaze, paint it 
over the top of a tart to give brilliance and glitter, spread it over a cake to act 
as a simple icing, or paint it inside a baked pastry shell to provide a light water- 
proofing before the filling goes in. 


Abricot 
[For Apricot Glaze] 


594 CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 


Gelée de Groseilles 


[For Red Currant Glaze] 
For about 13 cup red currant or apricot glaze 


V2 cup apricot preserves, 
forced through a@ sieve 
OR, % cup red currant 
jelly 

2 Tb granulated sugar 

A small saucepan 

A wooden spatula or spoon 

Optional: a candy ther- 
mometer 


Stir the strained apricot preserves or currant jelly 
with the sugar over moderately high heat for 2 to 3 
minutes until thitk enough to coat the spoon with a 
light film, and the last drops are sticky as they fall 
from the spoon (225 to 228 degrees on a candy ther- 
mometer). Do not boil beyond this point or the glaze 
will become brittle when it cools. 


Apply the glaze while it is still warm. Unused glaze 


will keep indefinitely in a screw-topped jar; reheat 
again before using. 





CUSTARDS, 


MOUSSES, 


AND MOLDS 


Crémes et Mousses 


* CREME PLOMBIERES PRALINEE 


[Caramel Almond Cream—a cold dessert] 


A crème plombières is a custard filling into which beaten egg whites and 
a flavoring or fresh fruits are folded. It is spooned over ladyfingers or sponge- 
cake, then chilled. For the few minutes it takes to assemble, crème plombières 
makes a surprisingly attractive dessert. 


For 6 servings 


6 squares of stale sponge- 
cake or ladyfingers, about 
1¥% inches across and 14 
inch thick 

A 2-quart serving bowl 
about 4 inches deep or 6 
dessert cups 

2 Tb rum mixed with 2 Tb 
coffee 





If the squares of cake or ladyfingers are not stale, dry 
them out for about an hour in a 200-degree oven. Ar- 
range the pieces in the serving bowl, or place one in 
each dessert cup. Sprinkle with the rum and coffee. 


CUSTARDS, MOUSSES, AND MOLDS 


4 egg yolks 

Ys cup granulated sugar 

3 Tb flour 

2/2 cups boiling milk 

1 Tb vanilla extract, or 2 tsp 
vanilla and 3 Tb rum 


1 Tb butter 


4 egg whites 

Pinch of salt 

1 Tb granulated sugar 

3 Tb pralin (caramelized 
almonds), page 583, or 
the pulverized macaroons, 
on page 582 


2 Tb pralin or pulverized 
macaroons 


VARIATIONS 


595 


Following the procedure for crème påtissière, page 


590, beat the egg yolks and sugar in a mixing bowl 
until they are pale yellow. and form the ribbon. Beat 
in the flour. Then beat in the boiling milk by drop- 
lets. Pour into a clean saucepan and, stirring with a 
wire whip, boil slowly for 2 minutes. Remove from 


- heat and beat in the vanilla or rum, then the butter. 


Beat the egg whites and salt until soft peaks are 


formed; sprinkle on the sugar and beat until stiff 
peaks are formed, page 159. Fold the egg whites and 
the pralin or macaroons into the hot crème pdtissiére. 


Spoon the cream into the serving bowl or dessert cups 
and chill for 2 to 3 hours, or until serving time. Just 
before serving, sprinkle with the rest of the pralin or 
macaroons. 


Crème Plombières au Chocolat 


[Chocolate Cream | 


Use the ingredients and method in the master recipe, but substitute choco- 
late for all or part of the pralin as follows: 


3 ounces or squares of semi- 
sweet baking chocolate 
melted with 3 Tb rum or 
strong coffee, and 2 tsp 
vanilla extract 


I ounce grated or shaved 
semisweet baking choco- 
late 


Beat the smooth melted chocolate into 2124 cups of hot 


crème pâtissière. Then fold in the beaten egg whites. 


Just before serving, sprinkle chocolate over the cream. 





Créme Plombiéres aux Fruits 


[Plombières with Fresh Strawberries or Raspberries | 


Use the ingredients and method in the master recipe, but substitute fresh 
strawberries or raspberries for the pralin. Instead of soaking the cake in rum, 


596 CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 


use kirsch or cognac diluted with water; and use kirsch or cognac plus vanilla 
for flavoring the cream. 

You may substitute defrosted frozen fruits for fresh fruits here, but they 
look rather limp, especially when used for a decoration on top. 


z cup sliced fresh strawber- Sprinkle fruit with sugar and let stand for 10 minutes, 


ries or whole raspberries or until ready to use. Fold into the cream with the 
2 Tb instant sugar (very egg whites. 
finely granulated) 


12 to 18 whole strawberries Sprinkle the berries with sugar, let stand for 10 min- 
or I cup raspberries utes. Arrange over dessert just before serving. 
2 Tb instant sugar 


Crème Plombières à l Ananas 


[Plombières with Pineapple] 


Follow the ingredients and method in the master recipe, but substitute 
pineapple for the pralin. And instead of soaking the cake in rum, use kirsch 
or cognac diluted with water; use kirsch or cognac, plus vanilla for flavoring 
the cream. 


z cup (1 No. 8Z can) Drain the pineapple. Boil 1⁄4 cup of the syrup in a 
crushed pineapple in small saucepan for 5 minutes. Add the crushed pine- 
heavy syrup apple and boil for 5 minutes. Drain. Stir 2 tablespoons 

of the syrup into the crème pétissière. Fold in the egg 
whites and all but 14 cup of the pineapple. Reserve 


remaining pineapple to decorate dessert just before 
serving. 





x BAVAROIS A L’ORANGE 


[Orange Bavarian Cream—a cold desert] 


Bavarian cream is a mold of créme anglaise (custard sauce) with gelatin, 
beaten egg whites, lightly beaten cream, and a flavoring. It is unmolded after 
it has been chilled, and makes a dessert as beautiful to see as it is to eat. When 


properly made, it has a most lovely, light, creamy, velvety quality and ranks 
as one of the best of the molded desserts, 


CUSTARDS. MOUSSES, AND MOLDS 597 


We were curious to try out some recipes for Bavarian cream which 
claimed to produce masterpieces in seconds, so we experimented with the 
electric blender, raw egg yolks, cracked ice, and so forth. We also ran various 
changes of our own, such as substituting frozen fruits or ice cream for cracked 
ice. Though the molded results looked handsome, their flavor and consistency 
were disappointing. We have concluded that this particular masterpiece can- 
not be achieved in seconds; a cooked custard, well-dissolved gelatin, stiffly 
beaten egg whites, properly whipped cream, perfect flavoring, and then the 
right blending of one element into another at the right time seem to be the 
requisites for a true Bavarian cream. The classical method below is certainly 
far from difficult, and the whole dessert may be prepared the day, or even two 
days, before serving. 

Orange Bavarian cream is our favorite. Other flavorings are suggested at 
the end of the recipe. 

For 8 to 10 people 


The orange flavoring 


2 large, fine, bright-skinned 
oranges 

2 large sugar lumps 

A 4-quart mixing bowl 


Wash and dry the oranges. One at a time, rub the 
sugar lumps over them until all sides of each lump are 
impregnated with orange oil. Mash the sugar lumps 
in the mixing bowl. Grate the orange part of the skins 
into the bowl. 


A measuring cup Squeeze the juice of the oranges into the cup, to 


A strainer make ! to % cup of strained juice. Sprinkle the 
114 Tb (1% packages) gela- gelatin over the orange juice and set aside to soften. 
tin 


The custard sauce 


7 egg yolks 
A wire whip or electric 


beater 
r cup granulated sugar 
2 tsp cornstarch 


r¥4 cups boiling milk 

A 2-quart enameled sauce- 
pan 

A wooden spoon 

Optional: m candy ther- 
mometer 


Following the procedure for crème anglaise, page 588, 
add the egg yolks to the orange sugar in the mixing 
bowl. Gradually beat in the granulated sugar and con- 
tinue beating for 2 to 3 minutes until mixture is pale 
yellow and forms the ribbon. Beat in the cornstarch. 


Beat the milk in a thin stream of droplets into the egg 


yolk mixture. Pour into saucepan and set over mod- 
erate heat. Stir with wooden spoon until mixture 
thickens enough to coat the spoon lightly (170 de- 
grees). Do not overheat or egg yolks will scramble. 
Remove from heat and immediately add the orange 


598 


The egg whites 


5 egg whites 

Pinch of salt 

1 Tb granulated sugar 

A rubber spatula 

A bowl with a tray of ice 
cubes and water to cover 


them 


CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 


juice and gelatin mixture, beating for a moment or 
two until gelatin has dissolved completely. Rinse out 
the mixing bowl and pour in the custard. 


Beat the egg whites and salt until soft peaks are 
formed; sprinkleyon the sugar and beat until stiff 
peaks are formed, page 159. Using the rubber spatula, 
fold the egg whites into the hot custard. Set over 
the ice. Fold delicately with spatula frequently while 
mixture is cooling, to keep it from separating. When 
cold and almost but not quite set, proceed with recipe. 


The whipped cream and final flavoring 


Y% cup chilled whipping 
cream 

A 3-quart metal bowl 

A balloon whip 

2 Tb orange liqueur 

An 8-cup cylindrical mold 
or ring mold, preferably 
of metal as unmolding is 
easier 


Lightly oiled waxed paper 


Beat cream over the preceding bowl of ice until cream 
has doubled in volume and beater leaves faint traces 
on the surface (page 580). Fold the whipped cream 
and orange liqueur into the custard. 


Rinse mold in cold water and shake out excess. Turn 
the Bavarian cream into the mold. Cover with the 
waxed paper. Chill for 3 to 4 hours or overnight. 


Unmolding and serving 


A long, thin knife 
A chilled serving platter 


Peeled orange segments 
sprinkled with orange 
liqueur and sugar 


Remove waxed paper. Dip mold in very hot water 
for 1 second (a second or two longer for a porcelain 
mold) run knife around the edge of the cream, and 
reverse on a chilled serving platter. (May be un- 
molded and refrigerated several hours before serving.) 


č 


Serve surrounded with the orange segments. 


CUSTARDS, MOUSSES, AND MOLDS 599 


VARIATIONS 


Bavarois au Chocolat 


[Chocolate Bavarian Cream] 


Use the same method and ingredients as for the master recipe for Bavarian 
cream, but omit the orange flavoring and make the following changes. 


5 egg yolks instead of 7 


14 cup strong coffee 
2 tsp vanilla extract 


3 ounces or squares semi- 
sweet baking chocolate 


2 Tb dark rum or orange 
liqueur 


2 to 3 cups crème anglaise 
(custard sauce), page 588, 
or crème Chantilly 
(lightly whipped cream), 


page 580 


Fewer egg yolks are needed for the custard when 
chocolate is used. 


Soften the gelatin in coffee and vanilla rather than in 


orange juice. 


Grate the chocolate into the 114 cups of milk destined 


for the custard sauce. Heat slowly to the simmer, 
beating with a wire whip to blend the chocolate 
smoothly. Proceed with the custard sauce, beating in 
the coffee and gelatin at the end. Fold in the beaten 
egg whites and refrigerate, folding occasionally, until 
cool but not set. 


Rum is a more usual flavoring with chocolate, but 


orange liqueur may be used if you wish. Fold it in 
with the whipped cream, and fill the mold. 


Serve chocolate Bavarian cream with créme anglaise 


or with créme Chantilly. 





Bavarois Praliné 


[Almond Bavarian Cream] 


Use the same ingredients and method as for the master recipe for Bavarian 


cream, page 596, but omit the orange flavoring and substitute the following. 


12 cup cold strong coffee 


Soften the gelatin in coffee rather than in orange 


juice. 


600 


2 cup pralin (caramelized 
almonds), page 583, or 
pulverized macaroons, 


page 583 


1 Tb vanilla extract and 1⁄4 
tsp almond extract OR 1 
tsp vanilla extract, 1⁄4 tsp 
almond extract, and 2 Tb 
dark rum 


2 Tb pralin or pulverized 
macaroons 

a to 3 cups crème anglaise 
(custard sauce), page 588, 
or crème Chantilly 
(lightly whipped cream), 


page 580 


Bavarois aux Fruits 


CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 


Fold the pralin or macaroons into the custard with 
the beaten egg whites. Chill, folding occasionally, until 
cool but not set. 


Fold the flavoring into the custard with the whipped 


cream. , ` 


Sprinkle the top of the Bavarian cream with pralin 


or ‘macaroons just before serving. No sauce is neces- 
sary, but you may serve with it créme anglaise or 
crème Chantilly. 


[Strawberry or Raspberry Bavarian Cream—and other fruits] 


This recipe calls for raspberries or strawberries. Other fruit purées may 
be substituted, such as apricot, peach, or caramelized pears. Use the method 
and ingredients in the master recipe for Bavarian cream, page 596, but omit 
the orange flavoring and make the following changes. 


5 egg yolks instead of 7 


Y cup strawberry or rasp- 
berry juice, or orange juice 


I pint fresh strawberries or 
raspberries OR, 1 lb. 
frozen berries, thawed and 
well drained 


2 to 3 cups strawberry or 
raspberry sauce 
OR, 1 pint fresh straw- 


The fruit purée gives body to the custard, so fewer 


egg yolks are needed. 


If you are using frozen berries, dissolve the gelatin in 
“2 cup of the juice. Otherwise use orange juice. 


Force the fruit through a sieve and measure out 3⁄4 to 
1 cup of purée. (Any leftover purée may go into your 
sauce.) Fold measured purée into the custard along 
with the whipped cream. 





Serve this Bavarian cream with strawberry or rasp- 
berry sauce, or surround the dessert with fresh berries. 


CUSTARDS, MOUSSES, AND MOLDS Got 


berries or raspberries, 
hulled and sprinkled with 


sugar r 


Cold Soufflés 


Many of the recipes you will see for cold soufflés are not cold soufflés at 
all, but Bavarian creams. They look like soufflés because they appear to have 
risen several inches up beyond the rim of the mold. This effect is achieved by 
surrounding the mold with a paper collar which holds the cream in place until 
set; the paper is removed just before serving time. You may mold any of the 
preceding Bavarian creams this way, as well as the chocolate mousse on page 
604, or the almond-cream filling for the charlottes Malakoff starting on page 
605. Two recipes for actual cold soufflés are the rum and macaroon soufflé 
on page 620, and the caramel and almond soufflé on page 622. 


RIZ A L’IMPERATRICE 


[Bavarian Cream with Rice and Fruits—a cold dessert | 


Riz à l’Impératrice is one of the grand old standbys of the classic French 
cuisine, and has no relation, fortunately, to the dreadful rice puddings of one’s 
youth. It is velvet to the tongue, and is always accompanied by a decorative 
fruit sauce. 

For 8 to 10 people 


Preheat oven to 300 degrees. 


34 cup (4 ounces) finely Mix the fruits in a small bowl with the kirsch or 
diced glacéed fruits of cognac. Sprinkle on the gelatin and set aside until 
various colors, such as needed. 
cherries, angelica, orange 
peel 

4 Tb kirsch or cognac 

11⁄4 Tb (1% packages) gela- 


tin 


14 cup (4 ounces) white rice Sprinkle the rice into the boiling water and boil 5 
4 quarts boiling water minutes. Drain thoroughly. 


602 


1% cups boiling milk 

134 cup granulated sugar 

2 Tb butter 

A 1-quart covered, fireproof 
casserole 

1 tsp vanilla extract 

A round of buttered waxed 


paper 


5 egg yolks 

A 3- to 4-quart mixing bowl 

A wire whip or an electric 
beater 

34 cup granulated sugar 

1 tsp cornstarch 

1¥ cups boiling milk 

A heavy-bottomed enameled 
saucepan 

A wooden spoon 

1 tsp vanilla extract 

3 Tb apricot preserves forced 
through a sieve 

A bowl with a tray of ice 
cubes and water to cover 
them 

Flavorless cooking oil 

A 6-cup cylindrical mold 
about 3/2 inches deep, or a 
ring mold 

A round of oiled waxed 
paper 


1 cup chilled whipping 
cream 

A 3-quart metal bowl 

A balloon whip 

A round of oiled waxed 


paper 


2 cups strawberry or rasp- 
berry sauce, page 592 

A chilled serving platter 

Optional: 73 cup glacéed 


CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 


Bring milk, sugar, and butter to boil in the casserole. 
Stir in the rice and vanilla. Bring to simmer on top 
of the stove. Lay paper over the rice, cover casserole, 
and set in preheated oven-to cook very slowly for 35 
to 40 minutes, until the milk has been absorbed and 
the rice is very tender. 

` 


Meanwhile, following the procedure for crème an- 


glaise, page 588, place egg yolks in mixing bowl. 
Gradually beat in the sugar and continue beating un- 
til mixture is pale yellow and forms the ribbon. Beat 
in the cornstarch, then the boiling milk by droplets. 
Pour into saucepan and stir over moderate heat until 
custard coats the spoon lightly (170 degrees). Do not 
bring near the simmer or egg yolks will curdle. Re- 
move from heat and immediately stir in the glacéed 
fruits and gelatin mixture, stirring until gelatin has 
thoroughly dissolved. Add the vanilla and apricot pre- 
serves. Stir the rice into the custard, a spoonful at a 
time if rice is hot. Fold delicately over the bowl of 
ice cubes and water until cold but not set. 


Lightly oil the inside of the mold and line the bottom 


with oiled waxed paper. 


When the rice custard has cooled, beat the cream over 


the bowl of ice cubes and water until doubled in vol- 
ume and beater leaves light traces on the surface (page 
580). Fold into the rice custard, turn into the mold, 
and cover with oiled waxed paper. Refrigerate for 4 
hours or overnight. 





Remove waxed paper. Dip mold in very hot water for 
1 second (a few seconds more if mold is not of metal). 
Run a knife around the custard, and unmold on 
chilled serving platter. Surround with the sauce. 


CUSTARDS, MOUSSES, AND MOLDS 


fruits, diced or cut into 
fancy shapes, and steeped 
in 1 Tb kirsch or cognac 


603 


(NOTE: After dessert has been unmolded, you may 
decorate it with glacéed fruits.) 





MOUSSE À L’ORANGE 


[Orange Mousse—a frozen dessert | 


A becoming way to serve this delicate mousse is in the scooped-out halves 


of oranges. 
For 6 people 


3 Tb orange liqueur 

A 1-quart measuring cup 

3 or 4 bright-skinned 
oranges 

12 lemon 

Orange juice 


6 egg yolks 

Y, cup granulated sugar 

A 3-quart mixing bowl 

A wire whip or electric 
beater 

2 tsp cornstarch 

A 2¥%-quart, heavy-bot- 
tomed enameled saucepan 

A wooden spoon 

Optional: a candy ther- 
mometer 


6 egg whites 

Pinch of salt 

1 Tb granulated sugar 

A bowl with a tray of ice 
cubes and water to cover 


them 


Y% cup chilled whipping 
cream 

6 orange-shell cups, or des- 
sert cups, or a serving 


bowl 


Pour the liqueur into the measuring cup. Grate the 
colored part of the skins of 3 oranges and the 14 lemon 
into the cup. Strain in enough orange juice so liquid 
measures 2 cups. 


Beat the egg yolks and sugar in a mixing bowl until 
mixture is pale yellow and forms the ribbon, page 
579. Beat in the cornstarch and the orange juice mix- 
ture. Pour into the saucepan and stir over moderate 
heat with wooden spoon until mixture heats through 
and thickens, but does not come to the simmer, or a 
temperature of more than 170 degrees. It should coat 
the spoon lightly. Remove from heat and beat a mo- 
ment to stop the cooking. 


Beat the egg whites and salt in a separate bow] until 


soft peaks are formed; sprinkle in the sugar and beat 
until stiff peaks are formed, page 159. Fold the egg 
whites into the hot orange mixture, and fold over the 
bowl of ice until thoroughly chilled so the custard will 
not separate. 


Beat the cream until stiff, page 580, and fold into the 
chilled mousse. Turn into orange-shell cups, dessert 
cups, or bowl. Cover and freeze for several hours or 
overnight. 

Decorations: 


604 


Glazed orange peel, page 
587, angelica cut into leaf 
shapes, mint leaves, or 
whipped cream 


CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 


Decorate the desert just before serving. 





MOUSSELINE AU CHOCOLAT 
MAYONNAISE AU CHOCOLAT 
FONDANT AU CHOCOLAT 


[Chocolate Mousse—a cold dessert] 


Among all the recipes for chocolate mousse this is one of the best, we 


think; it uses egg yolks, sugar, and butter, and instead of cream, beaten egg 


whites. The orange flavoring suggested here is delicious with chocolate. An 


interchangeable version is charlotte Malakoff on page 607, made of butter, 


chocolate, and powdered almonds. Either may be unmolded after chilling, or 


served in a bowl, or in dessert cups, or in little covered pots. (Note: When 


served in pots, this dessert is sometimes erroneously called pots de crème au 


chocolat. French dessert crémes are custards, such as those on pages 610-11.) 


For about 5 cups serving 6 to 8 people 


A 3-quart porcelain or stain- 
less steel mixing bowl 

A wire whip or electric 
beater 

4 egg yolks 

34 cup instant sugar (very 
finely granulated) 

14 cup orange liqueur 

A pan of not-quite-simmer- 
ing water 

A basin of cold water 


6 ounces or squares semi- 
sweet baking chocolate 

4 Tb strong coffee 

A small saucepan 

6 ounces or 1/2 sticks soft- 
ened unsalted butter 


Beat the egg yolks and sugar together until mixture is 
thick, pale yellow, and falls back upon itself forming 
a slowly dissolving ribbon, Beat in the orange liqueur. 
Then set mixing bowl over the not-quite-simmering 
water and continue beating for 3 to 4 minutes until 
the mixture is foamy and too hot for your finger. 
Then beat over cold water for 3 to 4 minutes until the 
mixture is cool and again forms the ribbon. It will 
have the consistency of mayonnaise. 


Melt chocolate with coffee over hot water. Remove 
Ce . . 

from heat and beat in the butter a bit at a time, to 

make a smooth cream. Beat the chocolate into the 


egg yolks and sugar, then beat in the optional orange 
peel. 


CUSTARDS, MOUSSES, AND MOLDS 605 


Optional: 14 cup finely 
diced, glazed orange peel, 


page 587 4 
4 egg whites Beat the egg whites and salt until soft peaks are 
Pinch of salt formed; sprinkle on the sugar and beat until stiff 
1 Tb granulated sugar peaks are formed, page 159. Stir one fourth of the 
egg whites into the chocolate mixture. Fold in the 
rest. 


Turn into serving dish, dessert cups, or petits pots. Re- 
frigerate for at least 2 hours or overnight. 


2 cups vanilla-flavored Pass the sauce or whipped cream separately. 
créme anglaise (custard 
sauce), page 588, or lightly 
whipped cream sweetened 
with powdered sugar, 


page 580 


Molded Mousse 


Turn the preceding mousse into a lightly oiled, 6-cup ring mold. Cover 
with oiled, waxed paper. Chill for 3 to 4 hours until well set. Remove paper, 
dip mold for 1 second in very hot water, and unmold on a chilled serving dish. 
Fill center of mousse with créme anglaise or lightly whipped cream. 

Or use the following charlotte Malakoff system, lining a cylindrical mold 
with ladyfingers dipped in orange liqueur. 


* CHARLOTTE MALAKOFF AUX FRAISES 


{Almond Cream with Fresh Strawberries—a cold dessert] 


This delectable almond cream is relatively quick to assemble if you have 
ladyfingers on hand—but they must be of excellent quality, not the soggy, 
baking-powder variety. If you cannot buy them, or have not the time to make 
them, omit the ladyfingers altogether and turn the almond cream into a ring 
mold as described in the preceding paragraph, or into a serving dish, or into 
individual dessert cups. Although the dessert cannot then be called a charlotte 


606 


CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 


Malakoff, it will still be delicious, and can be nicely decorated with fresh straw- 


berries. 
For 8 to 10 people 


Preparing strawberries and lining mold 


1 quart fresh strawberries 
A cake rack 


A 2-quart cylindrical mold, 
about 4 inches high and 7 
inches in diameter 

A round of waxed paper 


13 cup orange liqueur 

24 cup water 

A soup plate 

24 single ladyfingers, 4 
inches long and about 2 
inches wide, page 666 

A cake rack 


The almond cream 


A 4-quart mixing bowl 

An electric beater ar wire 
whip 

12 lb. softened unsalted but- 
ter 

1 cup sugar (preferably the 
very finely granulated 
“instant” type) 

Y2 cup orange liqueur 

Y, tsp almond extract 

14% cups pulverized al- 
monds, page 582 


2 cups chilled whipping 
cream 

A chilled bowl 

A chilled beater 


Molding and serving 


A round of buttered waxed 
paper 


Hull the strawberries. Wash them quickly if neces- 
sary, and set on\cake rack to drain thoroughly. 


Line the bottom of the unbuttered mold with the 


round of unbuttered waxed paper. 


p 


Pour orange liqueur and water into soup plate. Dip 


in the ladyfingers, one by one, and drain on rack. 
Line sides of mold with ladyfingers as described on 
page 585. Reserve the remaining dipped ladyfingers. 


Cream butter and sugar together for 3 to 4 minutes, 
until pale and fluffy, page 581. Beat in orange liqueur 
and almond extract. Continue beating for several min- 
utes until sugar is completely dissolved. Beat in the 
almonds. 


Whip the cream until the beater, drawn across the 


top of the cream, leaves light traces, page 580. Fold 
the cream into the’almond and butter mixture. 


Turn a third of the almond cream into the lined mold. 
Arrange over it a layer of strawberries, heads down. 


CUSTARDS, MOUSSES, AND MOLDS 


À saucer which will just fit 
into the mold 

A 1-lb. weight, or pieces of a 
meat grinder 


A chilled serving platter 

The remaining strawberries, 
more if needed 

2 cups créme Chantilly 
(lightly whipped cream), 
page 580, or strawberry 
sauce, page 592 


VARIATIONS 


607 


Cover them with a layer of ladyfingers. Repeat with 
another layer each of almond cream, strawberries, and 
ladyfingers. Fill the mold with the rest of the almond 
cream and a layer of ladyfingers if there are any left. 
Trim off ladyfingers around edge of mold, and press 
the trimmed-off bits into the top of the cream. Cover 


_mold with the waxed paper, set saucer over the paper, 


and place the weight on it. Refrigerate for 6 hours or 
overnight. The butter must be chilled firm, so the des- 
sert will not collapse when unmolded. 


Remove waxed paper. Run a knife around the inside 
of the mold, and reverse dessert on a chilled serving 
platter. Peel waxed paper from top, and refrigerate 
dessert until serving time. Decorate with strawberries 
and accompany with whipped cream or strawberry 
sauce. 


Use the same method and proportions as in the preceding master recipe 
for charlotte Malakoff, but make the following changes for these variations: 


Charlotte Malakoff aux Framboises 


[Almond Cream with Raspberries | 


Substitute fresh raspberries for strawberries in the preceding recipe. 


Charlotte Malakoff au Chocolat 
[Almond Cream with Chocolate] 


Ingredients for the master 
recipe but without the 
strawberries 

4 ounces or squares of semi- 
sweet chocolate melted in 
1⁄4 cup strong coffee 

14 rather than 12 cup orange 


Following the master recipe, line the mold with lady- 
fingers dipped in diluted orange liqueur. Make the 
almond cream as directed, but fold the melted choco- 
late into it, and only 4 cup of orange liqueur. Cool 
before folding in the whipped cream, and complete 
the recipe. Serve with whipped cream or custard 
sauce. 


608 CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 


liqueur for the almond 
cream 
2 cups crème Chantilly 
(lightly whipped cream), 
page 580, or créme an- 
glaise (custard sauce), 
page 588 
y 


an 


Charlotte Basque 
[Almond Custard with Chocolate] 


This is lighter than the charlotte Malakoff because the base is a custard 
and no whipped cream is folded into it. 
For 8 to 10 people 


4 cups crème anglaise (cus- Prepare a chocolate-flavored custard sauce and beat 
tard sauce), page 588, over cold water, or refrigerate, until almost cold. 
flavored with chocolate 


12 lb. unsalted butter Cream the butter and almonds together in a mixing 
1 cups pulverized al- bowl. Gradually beat in the cool custard sauce. Beat 

monds, page 582 in the almond extract, and rum or liqueur to taste. 
V2 tsp almond extract Turn into lined mold, alternating with layers of lady- 


2 to 3 Tb rum, kirsch, co- fingers, and chill until set. Serve with lightly whipped 
gnac, or orange liqueur cream. 
A 2-quart mold lined with 
ladyfingers, and extra 
ladyfingers as described in 
master recipe 
2 cups crème Chantilly 
(lightly whipped cream), 
page 580 


CHARLOTTE CHANTILLY, AUX FRAISES 
CHARLOTTE CHANTILLY, AUX FRAMBOISES 


[Strawberry or Raspberry Cream—a cold dessert] 


Here is another handsome molded dessert; this one is also relatively 


quick to execute. But unless the egg yolks are well thickened, and then chilled 
before the cream is folded in, the dessert will collapse rather quickly. If you 


CUSTARDS, MOUSSES, AND MOLDS 


609 


do not wish to serve it unmolded, turn the cream into a serving bowl or into 
dessert cups. You may use frozen fruit instead of fresh, but be sure the fruit is 
well thawed and most thoroughly drained, otherwise the purée will be too 


liquid. 
For 8 to 10 people 


A round of waxed paper 

A 2-quart cylindrical mold 
about 4 inches high and 7 
inches in diameter, lined 
with ladyfingers, page 585 


1¥4 pints fresh strawberries 
or raspberries 


A wire whip or electric 
beater 

A 3-quart stainless steel mix- 
ing bowl 

73 cup instant sugar (very 
finely granulated) 

& egg yolks 

A pan of not-quite-simmer- 
ing water 

A bowl with a tray of ice 
cubes and water to cover 
them 

212 cups chilled heavy whip- 
ping cream 

A 4-quart metal bowl 

A chilled beater 


Extra ladyfingers, if needed 
A round of waxed paper 


A chilled serving dish 
1 to 3 cups fresh strawber- 
ries or raspberries 


. Place the round of waxed paper in the bottom of the 


unbuttered mold. Then line the sides of the mold 
(not the bottom) with upright ladyfingers as de- 
scribed in the directions. 


Hull, wash, and drain the berries. Force them through 


a sieve and into a bowl. Measure out 114 cups of pu- 
rée. Chill. 


Beat the sugar into the egg yolks and continue beat- 


ing until mixture is pale yellow and falls back on 
itself forming a slowly dissolving ribbon. Then place 
the mixing bowl over the not-quite-simmering water 
and beat until mixture has thickened into a cream 
and becomes uncomfortably hot for your finger. Set 
bowl in ice water and beat until mixture is cold and 
falls back upon itself forming a slowly dissolving rib- 
bon on the surface; fold with a spatula until chilled. 


When the egg yolk mixture has chilled, beat the 


cream until it has doubled in volume and forms stiff 
(rather than soft) peaks. 


Fold the chilled strawberry or raspberry purée into 


the chilled egg yolk mixture, then fold in the whipped 
cream. Turn into the mold. Place ladyfingers over the 
cream to fill the mold almost completely. Trim off 
any protruding ladyfingers around the edges of the 
mold. Cover with waxed paper and refrigerate for at 
least 6 hours or overnight. 


Just before serving, remove waxed paper, run a knife 


around the edge of the mold, and reverse dessert onto 
a chilled serving dish. Remove waxed paper. Deco- 
rate the top of the dessert with fresh berries and, if 
you wish, place more berries around the dessert. 


610 


CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 


a aaam 


* CREME RENVERSEE AU CARAMEL 


[Caramel Custard, Unmolded—warm or cold] 


French custards are usually unmolded, and therefore call for more eggs 


and egg yolks than custards served directly from their baking dishes. 
For a 1-quart mold serving 4 to 6 people 


The custard mixture 


A 1-quart, fireproof, cylin- 
drical mold lined with 
caramel, page 584 

21⁄2 cups milk 

Optional: 1 vanilla bean 


14 cup granulated sugar 

3 eggs 

3 egg yolks 

A 3-quart mixing bowl 

A wire whip 

1 tsp vanilla extract, if you 
have not used a bean 

A fine-meshed sieve 


Baking the custard 


Preheat oven to 350 degrees. 

Line the mold with caramel as directed. Bring the 
milk with the optional vanilla bean to just below the 
simmer in a saucepan, cover, and let the bean steep 
in the milk while you prepare the rest of the custard 
ingredients. 


Gradually beat the sugar into the eggs and egg yolks 
in the bowl until well mixed, light, and foamy. Con- 
tinue beating while pouring on the hot milk in a thin 
stream of droplets. Stir in vanilla extract, if you have 
not used a vanilla bean. Strain the mixture through a 
sieve into the caramel-lined mold. 


Set mold in a pan and pour enough boiling water around mold to come half- 


way up its sides. Place in bottom third of preheated oven, close oven door, and wait 
for temperature to return to 350; in 5 minutes, turn oven down to 325. Water in pan 
should always be almost-but-not-quite simmering—too much heat and the custard 
will be grainy. Bake for about 40 minutes: a trussing needle or straw should come 
out clean when plunged 1 inch from edge of mold, but center of custard should still 
tremble slightly—over-long cooking makes a tough rather than tender custard. 


Unmolding and serving 


If you wish to serve the custard warm, set mold in a pan of cold water for 
about 10 minutes to firm it up; otherwise chill in the refrigerator. To unmold, run a 
knife between custard and edge of mold, place a serving dish upside down over the 
mold, quickly reverse the two, and remove the mold from the custard. If you wish, 


simmer 2 to 3 tablespoons of water in the mold to dissolvé the remaining caramel; 
strain around the custard. 


‘CUSTARDS, MOUSSES, AND MOLDS 





VARIATIONS 


To serve individual unmolded custards, use the custard mixture in the 
preceding master recipe, and mold the custards as follows: 


Petits Pots de Créme 
[Cup Custards, Unmolded] 


1 quart caramel custard mix- 
ture, the preceding recipe 

8 caramel-lined, 74 cup 
ramekins, page 585 

A pan to hold the ramekins 


Divide the custard mixture among the ramekins and 
pour boiling water into the pan to come halfway up; 
set in lower third level of a preheated 350-degree oven. 
In 5 minutes, turn oven down to 325 and bake 20 to 25 
minutes longer or until a skewer or straw comes out 
clean when plunged one-eighth inch from edge of 
molds; centers should still tremble. Remove from oven, 
remove molds from water, and let cool. Unmold when 
ready to serve. 


Créme Sainte-Anne au Caramel 


[Macaroon Cup Custards, Unmolded] 


1 Tb butter 

E caramel-lined ramekins, 
%-cup capacity, page 585 

1 cup pulverized macaroons, 
page 583 

1 quart caramel custard mix- 
ture, the master recipe 


Optional garnishings 


Créme anglaise (custard 
sauce), page 588 

OR, strawberry or raspberry 
sauce, page 592 

OR, fresh or canned peach 
halves, coated with cara- 


mel syrup, page 584 


Butter the insides of the caramel-lined ramekins and 
sprinkle 2 tablespoons of pulverized macaroons in 
each. Fill with the custard mixture and bake as in the 
preceding directions for cup custards. You may wish 
to garnish them when unmolded with one of the 
suggestions at the left. 


612 


CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 





DIPLOMATE 


POUDING DE CABINET 


[Custard with Glacéed Fruits, Unmolded—a warm or cold dessert] 


This delicious and most classical of French desserts does not take too long 
to prepare, and can be baked the day before your dinner party. The custard 
is baked in a mold lined with ladyfingers which must be of best quality, tender 


and dry, not spongy. 
For 8 people 


14 cup small, seedless raisins 

A saucepan of boiling water 

A small bowl 

24 cup finely diced, mixed, 
glacéed fruits, such as 
cherries, angelica, apricots, 
pineapple 

3 Tb dark rum or kirsch 


A round of buttered waxed 
paper 

A 6-cup cylindrical mold 
about 3/2 inches high 


¥ cup dark rum or kirsch 

73 cup water 

A soup plate 

About 40 single ladyfingers, 
3% inches long and a 
inches wide (recipe for 
homemade ladyfingers is 
on page 666) 

A cake rack 


a eggs 

3 egg yolks 

2 cup granulated sugar 

A 3-quart mixing bowl 

A wire whip 

2 cups milk, brought to the 
boil with the grated rind 
of 1 orange 


Drop the raisins into the boiling water and let stand 


for five minutes. Drain, and place in the bowl. Stir 
in the glacéed fruits, the rum or kirsch, and let stand 
until ready to use. 


Place the buttered paper in the bottom of the mold. 


Pour the rum or kirsch and water into the soup plate. 


One by one, dip 20 to 25 ladyfingers (or enough to 
line the mold) into the liquid. Drain on cake rack. 
Following directions on page 585, line the bottom and 
the sides of the mold with the dipped ladyfingers. 


Beat the eggs, egg yolks, and sugar in a mixing bowl 


until light and foamy. Gradually beat in the boiling 
milk. Strain in the kirsch or rum from the glacéed 
fruits. 


CUSTARDS, MOUSSES, AND MOLDS 613 


Y, cup apricot preserves 
forced through a sieve 


A pan of boiling water 


A serving platter 
2 cups strawberry sauce, 


page 592 


Preheat oven to 350 degrees. 


Spoon a ladleful of custard into the prepared mold. 
Over it sprinkle a small handful of the glacéed fruits, 
then 2 to 3 tablespoons of apricot preserves. Cover with 
2 or 3 ladyfingers, and spoon a bit of custard over 
them. Wait for a moment for the ladyfingers to ab- 
sorb the custard, then continue with layers of fruit, 
apricot preserve, ladyfingers, and custard until the 
mold is filled. Trim off protruding ladyfingers around 
edge of mold. 


Set mold in a pan of boiling water, and place in bot- 
tom third of oven. Immediately reduce heat to 325 
degrees. Bake for 50 to 60 minutes, making sure water 
in pan never comes to the simmer. When center of 
custard has risen very slightly and a needle or knife 
plunged to the bottom of the mold comes out clean, 
custard is done. Remove from pan of water and let 
cool. (May be served slightly warm, or chilled.) 


Run a knife around the edge of the custard and re- 


verse on a serving platter. Remove round of paper, 
and surround the dessert with the sauce. 


SWEET SOUFFLES 


Soufflés Sucrés 


Many people consider the desert soufflé to be the epitome and triumph 
of the art of French cookery, a glorious and exciting finish to a great meal. 
Although sweet soufflés are lighter and airier than entrée soufflés, the general 
idea is the same: a flavored sauce base into which stiffly beaten egg whites are 
incorporated. All the points discussed in the Entrée chapter regarding soufflés, 
pages 157 to 163, apply also to sweet soufflés; these include soufflé molds, place- 


ment in the oven, testing, and serving. The discussion in that section on how 
to beat egg whites is of particular importance. Though you will get a soufflé 
of some sort no matter what you do, you will achieve magnificence only if 
your egg whites are beaten so they mount smoothly and stiffly to about seven 
times their original volume, and are then folded carefully into the sauce base 
so that their maximum volume is retained. 


614 CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 


THE SAUCE BASE OR BOUILLIE 


Of the three standard methods for making a soufflé base, the béchamel 
with its cooked roux, the crème pâtissière with its cooked egg yolks, and the 
bouillie used in the following recipes, we prefer the bouillie for lightness. A 
bouillie is milk, sugar, and flour or starch, boiled for a few seconds until thick- 
ened. After it has cooled slightly, egg yolks, butter, and flavoring are beaten in, 
then beaten egg whites are incorporated. Some people prefer a bouillie with 
flour; others use potato starch, rice starch, or cornstarch. You may take your 
choice except for the chocolate soufflé which requires starch. Although you can 
make a soufflé without starch or flour, as in the lemon soufflé tart on page 645, 
you will find that it lacks something in texture and tenderness. 


SOUFFLE MOLDS 


Be sure to read the illustrated section on soufflé molds, page 162 in the 
Entrée chapter. 


TIMING 


The following recipes for hot soufflés are based on a 6-cup mold, and, 
except for the chocolate soufflé, take 30 to 35 minutes to bake. Since you may 
fill your mold, cover it with an empty kettle, and let it wait about an hour be- 
fore baking, you can time it quite accurately to coincide with dessert if you 
are also able to estimate the general eating-speed for the rest of the meal. In 
any case, no guest who knows a soufflé is in the oven should mind waiting 
a few minutes for dessert. 

Soufflés made in a 3-cup mold take 15 to 20 minutes to bake; those in an 
8-cup mold, 40 to 45 minutes. Molds larger than 8-cup capacity are difficult 
to time, and the soufflé is so large it may not rise satisfactorily. 





x SOUFFLE À LA VANILLE 
[Vanilla Souffé] 


ce 


All of the sweet soufflés with the exception of chocolate may be made ac- 
cording to the following vanilla soufflé formula. A fairly quick operator can 
make any of them ready for the oven in 20 minutes. 


For 4 people 


SWEET SOUFFLES 


615 


Preparing the soufflé mold 


2 Tb softened butter 

A 6-cup mold, preferably 
one 3/2 inches deep like 
the charlotte. See illus- 
trations on page 162 

Granulated sugar 


The bouillie sauce base 


A wire whip 

3 Tb sifted all-purpose flour 

A 2/2-quart enameled sauce- 
pan 

34 cup milk 

134 cup granulated sugar 


4 eggs 

A bowl for beating egg 
whites 

A wire whip 


2 Tb softened butter 
A rubber scraper 


The egg whites 


5 egg whites (4 left over 
from the yolks and x ex- 
tra white) 

Pinch of salt 

1 Tb granulated sugar 


The flavoring 


2 Tb vanilla extract 

(Or see Vanilla, page 
587, if you prefer the 
bean) 


Preheat oven to 400 degrees. 


Measure out your ingredients. Butter the entire inner 


surface of the mold. Roll granulated sugar around in 


it to coat the sides and bottom evenly. Knock out 


excess sugar. 


Beat the flour in the saucepan with a bit of the milk 
until well blended. Beat in the rest of the milk, and 
the sugar. Stir over moderately high heat until mix- 
ture thickens and comes to the boil. Boil, stirring, for 
30 seconds. Sauce will be very thick. Remove from 
heat and beat for 2 minutes to cool slightly. 


Separate one egg, dropping the white into the bowl, 


and the yolk into the center of the sauce. At once beat 
the yolk into the sauce with the wire whip. Continue 
with the rest of the eggs, one by one. 


Beat in half the butter, Clean sauce off sides of pan 


with rubber scraper. Dot top of sauce with the rest of 
the butter to prevent a skin from forming on the 
surface. 

(*) If made in advance, beat over gentle heat only 
until sauce is barely warm to your finger, not hot. 
Then proceed with recipe. 


Beat the egg whites and salt together until soft peaks 
are formed. Sprinkle on the sugar and beat until stiff 
peaks are formed. (Directions for beating egg whites 


are on page 159.) 


Beat the vanilla into the sauce base. Stir in a fourth 
of the beaten egg whites. Delicately fold in the rest. 
(Illustrated directions for folding are on page 161.) 


616 CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 


Filling the mold 


Turn the soufflé mixture into the prepared mold, 
leaving a space of at least 114 inches between the top 
of the soufflé and the rim of the mold. If the mold is 
too full, the soufflé will spill over as it rises. 

(*) If soufflé is not to be cooked immediately, set an 
empty kettle upside down over the mold. Filled mold 
can now wait for about an hour before baking. 


Baking the soufflé 


Powdered sugar in a shaker Place the mold in the middle level of the preheated 
oven, and immediately turn down to 375 degrees. In 
20 minutes, when the soufflé has begun to puff and 
brown, quickly sprinkle the top with powdered sugar. 
After a total of 30 to 35 minutes of baking, the top of 
the soufflé should be nicely browned, and a trussing 
needle, straw, or long, thin knife, plunged into the 
soufflé through the side of the puff, should come out 
clean. 


Serve immediately. 


VARIATIONS 


All of the following variations are based on the preceding master recipe, 
using the same method and ingredients except for changes in flavor. 


Soufflé à VOrange 


[Orange Soufflé with Cointreau, Curaçao, Grand Marnier, Etc.] 


1 bright-skinned orange Use the master soufflé formula. Before making the 
2 large sugar lumps bouillie sauce base, rub the sugar lumps over the 
orange to extract the oil. Mash the sugar lumps, grate 
the orange part of the peel, add to the saucepan with 
the granulated sugar, and proceed with the sauce base. 


2 tsp vanilla extract instead Beat the vanilla and the orange liqueur into the sauce 


of 2 Tb base just before incorporating the beaten egg whites. 
3 to 4 Tb orange liqueur Complete the recipe. 


SWEET SOUFFLÉS 617 





Soufflé Rothschild 
[Soufflé with Glacéed Fruits and Kirsch] 





- ¥% cup diced, mixed glacéed Let the glacéed fruits stand in the kirsch for half an 
fruits hour. 
Ya cup kirsch | 


2 tsp vanilla extract instead Using the master soufflé formula, prepare the bouillie 
of 2 Tb sauce base. Just before incorporating the beaten egg 
whites, drain the fruits and beat their kirsch macera- 

tion into the sauce base with the vanilla. 


Turn a third of the soufflé mixture into the prepared 
mold. Sprinkle half of the glacéed fruits on top. Cover 
with half the remaining soufflé mixture, then with 
the rest of the fruits, and finally the last of the soufflé 
mixture. 


Soufflé au Café 
[Coffee Soufflé] 


Use the master soufflé formula on page 614, but be- 
fore making the bouillie sauce base: 


3 Tb coffee beans Either bring ¥, cup of the milk to the boil with coffee 

OR, 1 Tb instant coffee beans, cover and steep for 5 minutes, then strain into 
the milk and flour paste, beating thoroughly; or beat 
instant coffee into 1⁄ cup of boiling milk. 


1 Tb vanilla extract rather Then proceed with the recipe, beating the vanilla into 
than 2 Tb the sauce base before incorporating the beaten egg 
whites. 





Soufflé Praliné 
Soufflé aux Macarons 


[Soufflé with Caramelized Almonds or Macaroons] 


Use the master soufflé formula on page 614. 


618 CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 





1 Tb vanilla extract rather Stir the vanilla and the pralin or macaroons into the 
than 2 Tb bouillie sauce base just before incorporating the beaten 
14 cup pralin, page 583, or egg whites. 
the pulverized macaroons, 


page 583 





Soufflé aux Amandes 
[Almond Soufflé] 


Almonds may be added to any soufflé, and are especially good with 
coffee, orange, or chocolate, as well as with vanilla. 


Use the master soufflé formula on page 614. 


2 Tb vanilla extract Stir the vanilla and almond extracts and almonds into 


14 tsp almond extract the bouillie sauce base just before incorporating the 
12 cup pulverized toasted al- beaten egg whites. 
monds, page 582 


Soufflé Panaché 
{ Half-and-half Soufflé] 


For two kinds of soufflé cooked in the same mold, use vanilla, and coffee, 
pralin, or orange. Chocolate will not do, as it cooks in a different manner. 


The bouillie sauce base, Divide the sauce base into the two bowls. 
master recipe, page 615 
2 two-quart bowls 


5 egg whites Beat the egg whites and salt together until soft peaks 
Pinch of salt are formed; sprinkle on the sugar and beat until stiff 
1 Tb granulated sugar peaks are formed, 





1 Tb vanilla extract Beat the vanilla flavoring into one bowl, and fold in 


half the beaten egg whites. 





2 tsp vanilla extract 
2 tsp instant coffee mixed 
with 1 Tb boiling water 


Beat the vanilla extract and coffee into the other bowl, 
and fold in the remaining egg whites. 


SWEET SOUFFLÉS 


A 6-cup soufflé mold pre- 
pared as in the master 
recipe 

V2 cup pulverized maca- 
roons, page 583, moistened 
with 2 Tb orange liqueur 


619 


Turn half the vanilla soufflé mixture into the pre- 


pared mold. Sprinkle with a third of the macaroons 
and liqueur mixture. Spread half of the coffee soufflé 
over this, then sprinkle on more macaroons. Continue 
with the remaining vanilla soufflé, macaroons, and the 
last of the coffee soufflé. 


Bake for 30 to 35 minutes in a preheated, 375-degree 
oven as for the master recipe. 





SOUFFLE AU CHOCOLAT 


[Chocolate Soufflé] 


Chocolate needs special treatment for soufflés because it is heavy. Although 


the formula in our first edition produced a dramatic puff, it was far too fra- 
gile. In this new version, you fold the chocolate mixture into a meringue— 
that is, rather than adding the sugar to the sauce base, you whip it into the 
egg whites, thereby firming them up. Just this simple change in method gives 
the soufflé staying power so that instead of collapsing rather rapidly into a 
pudding, it stays up and retains its primal soufflé character. 


For 6 to 8 people 


7 ounces or squares of semi- 
sweet or sweet baking 
chocolate 

14 cup strong coffee 

A small saucepan with cover 
set in a larger pan of al- 
most simmering water 


Y, Tb softened butter 

A 2- to 2/2-quart soufflé dish 
or straight-sided baking 
dish 712 to 8 inches in di- 
ameter 


14 cup all-purpose flour 
A 2-quart saucepan 

A wire whip 

2 cups milk 

3 Tb butter 


Preheat oven to 425 degrees. 


Place the chocolate and coffee in the small pan, cover, 
and set in the larger pan of almost simmering water. 
Remove from heat and let the chocolate melt while 
you proceed with the recipe. 


Smear the inside of the dish with the butter. Sur- 
round with a collar of buttered aluminum foil (dou- 
ble thickness) to reach 3 inches above the rim of the 
dish. Set out all the rest of the ingredients called for. 


Measure the flour into the saucepan. Start whisking 
in the milk by dribbles at first to make a perfectly 
smooth cream; rapidly whisk in the rest. Add the but- 
ter, and stir over moderate heat until boiling; boil, 
stirring, for 2 minutes. Remove from heat and beat 1 
minute or so to cool slightly. 


620 


4 egg yolks 
1 Tb pure vanilla extract 


6 egg whites (34 cup) 
Ye tsp salt 
V2 cup sugar 


Powdered sugar in a sieve or 
shaker 

Serving suggestions: 2 cups 
of sweetened whipped 
cream, créme anglaise 
(page 588), or vanilla ice 
cream 


CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 





One by one, whisk the egg yolks into the hot sauce, 
then the smoothly melted chocolate, and finally the 
vanilla. 
(*) If you are not continuing within 5 to 10 minutes, 
lay a sheet of plastic wrap directly on top of the sauce 
to prevent a skin from forming. 

` 


Beat the egg whites and salt in a separate bowl until 
soft peaks are formed. Then, by sprinkles, beat in 
the sugar and continue until stiff shining peaks are 
formed (page 159). 





Scrape the chocolate mixture into the side of the egg 
white bowl; delicately fold them together. Turn the 
soufflé mixture into the prepared mold and set on a 
rack in the lower level of the preheated oven. Turn 
thermostat down to 375 degrees. 


In 35 to 40 minutes, when soufflé is well risen and the 
top has cracked, rapidly sprinkle the surface with 
powdered sugar; continue baking another 5 to 10 min- 
utes. Soufflé is still creamy at the center when a skewer 
plunged down through a surface crack comes out 
slightly coated. It is fully done and will stand up well 
(if that is how you like it) when the skewer comes 
out clean. Serve at once with one of the suggestions 
listed. 

(*) When turned into its baking dish, the soufflé may 
be covered loosely with a sheet of foil and set in a 
draft-free part of the kitchen for an hour or more 


before being baked. 





SOUFFLÉ DÉMOULÉ AUX MACARONS 


[Rum and Macaroon Soufflé, Unmolded—a cold dessert] 


For 6 to 8 people 





Preheat oven to 350 degrees. 


SWEET SOUFFLÉS 


x tsp butter 

An 8-cup fireproof, cylindri- 
cal mold lined with cara- 
mel, page 584 


A wire whip or electric 
beater 

144 cups (8 ounces) pulver- 
ized macaroons, page 583 

4 cup dark rum 

A 3-quart mixing bowl 

34 cup milk brought to the 
boil with 1⁄4 cup granu- 
lated sugar 


4 egg yolks 


4 egg whites 
Pinch of salt 
1 Tb granulated sugar 


A rubber spatula 


A pan containing enough 
boiling water to come 
halfway up outside of 
mold 


A serving dish 

3 cups chilled, coffee-fla- 
vored créme anglaise 
(custard sauce), page 588 


621 


Butter the inside of the caramel-lined mold. 


Beat the macaroons and rum together in the mixing 
bowl while pouring on the hot milk and sugar, and 
continue beating for 1 minute. 


One by one, beat in the egg yolks until blended with 
the macaroons. 


Beat the egg whites and salt in a separate bowl until 
soft peaks are formed; sprinkle on the sugar and beat 
until stiff peaks are formed, page 159. 


Fold the egg whites into the macaroon mixture, being 
sure the mixture, which is very liquid, is thoroughly: 
but delicately blended with the egg whites. Turn into 
prepared mold which will be filled by about two 
thirds. 


Place mold in pan of boiling water; set in lower third 
of preheated, 350-degree oven for 15 minutes. Then 
reduce heat to 325 degrees and continue baking about 
35 minutes more. Soufflé will rise about to the top of 
the mold. It is done when it shows a faint line of 
shrinkage from the sides of the mold. 


Refrigerate for 3 to 4 hours. The soufflé will sink 


down as it cools, and shrink more from the mold. 
When chilled, reverse on the serving dish. Simmer 2 
tablespoons of water in the mold to dissolve the re- 
maining caramel; allow to cool for a moment, then 
pour the caramel syrup over the soufflé. Surround 
with the sauce, and serve. 


622 


CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 





ÎLE FLOTTANTE 


[Caramel Almond Soufflé, Unmolded—a cold dessert] 


French floating island can be either a layered cake covered with whipped 
cream and surrounded by custard sauce, or a meringue. We have chosen the 


meringue because it is light, delicious, ändso very easy to do in the electric 


mixer. The addition of pralin gives texture and flavor as well as providing a 


ready-made sauce, allowing you to dispense with the traditional crème 


anglaise if you wish. (Those little mounds of egg white floating on custard 


may be English floating islands, but are French oeufs à la neige.) 


For 6 to 8 people 


A heavily buttered, 2-quart 
baking dish or charlotte 
mold 3/2 to 4 inches deep 

2 to 3 Tb sugar 


An electric mixer with 212- 
to 3-quart bowl 

egg whites (1 cup) at 
room temperature 

Ve tsp salt 

Y tsp cream of tartar 

I cup instant or very finely 
granulated sugar 

I tsp vanilla extract 

1 cup pralin (caramelized 
almonds), page 583 

A rubber spatula 


A serving plate 

2 Tb pralin 

Optional: 2 cups chilled 
créme anglaise 
(custard sauce, page 


588) in a sauce bowl 


Preheat oven to 250 degrees. Roll sugar in the but- 
tered mold, knock out excess, and set mold aside. 


Beat egg whites at moderate speed until they are 


frothy, then beat in the salt and cream of tartar. 
Gradually increase speed to fast and when egg whites 
form soft peaks start beating in the sugar, 2 table- 
spoons at a time. Continue beating until egg whites 
form stiff peaks. Beat in the vanilla. Remove bowl 
from stand and fold in the pralin 1⁄4 cup at a time 
with the rubber spatula. 


Spread lightly in dish, which it will overfill by 14 


inch or so; smooth exposed sides and top with spatula. 
Bake in lower third of preheated, 250-degree oven for 
about 25 minutes, until meringue has colored slightly 
and risen about ! inch. (It should be cooked enough 
so that meringue can hold its shape for unmolding; 
its rise indicates this.) Let cool for 30 minutes, then 
refrigerate for at least an hour so that it will settle. 


Set cover or plate askew over mold and drain accumu- 


lated caramel liquid into a small bowl. Unmold 
dessert onto serving plate. Sprinkle top with pralin, 


and pour the caramel around. Pass optional custard 
sauce separately. 


FRUIT DESSERTS 


623 


FRUIT DESSERTS 


_Entremets aux Fruits 


CHARLOTTE AUX POMMES 
[Apple Charlotte, Unmolded—a hot or cold dessert] 


This extremely good dessert is a thick, rum- and apricot-flavored apple 


purée piled into a cylindrical mold which has been lined with butter-soaked 


strips of white bread. It is baked in a very hot oven until the bread is golden 


brown, and is then unmolded. For the sake of drama, the mold should be 


3'4 to 4 inches high. Be sure to pick the right cooking apples and that your 


purée is very thick indeed, or the dessert will collapse when unmolded. 


For 6 to 8 people 


6 lbs. firm nonjuicy cooking 
apples (Golden Delicious 
are always reliable) 

A heavy-bottomed stainless 
or enameled pan 12 inches 
across 

A wooden spoon 


1, cup apricot preserves, 
forced through a sieve 

1 cup granulated sugar 

2 tsp vanilla extract 

14 cup dark rum 

3 Tb butter 


10 to 12 slices of homemade- 
type white bread, 4 inches 
square and 1⁄4 inch thick 

A 6-cup, fireproof, cylindri- 
cal mold about 3/2 inches 
high 

1 cup clarified butter, page 
15 


Quarter, peel, and core the apples. Slice them roughly 
into 14-inch pieces. You should have about 4 quarts. 
Place in pan, cover, and cook over very low heat for 
about 20 minutes, stirring occasionally, until tender. 


Uncover and beat in the apricot preserves, sugar, va- 
nilla, rum, and butter. Raise heat and boil, stirring al- 
most continuously until water content has all but 
evaporated—20 minutes or more. The purée should 
be a very thick and fairly stiff paste which holds it- 
self in a solid mass in the spoon. 


Preheat oven to 425 degrees. 


Remove crusts. Cut a square and 4 semicircles of bread 
to fit the bottom of the mold exactly. Sauté to a very 
light golden color in 3 or 4 tablespoons of the clarified 
butter. Fit them into the bottom of the mold. Cut the 
rest of the bread into strips 114 inches wide. Dip in 
clarified butter and fit them, overlapping each other, 
around the inner circumference of the mold. Trim 
off protruding ends. 


624 


A pan 
A serving platter 


Y, cup apricot preserves, 
forced through a sieve 

3 Tb dark rom 

2 Tb granulated sugar 

Optional: 2 cups créme 
anglaise (custard sauce), 
page 588, or 2 cups lightly 
whipped cream flavored 
with rum and powdered 
sugar, page 580 


CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 


Pack the apple purée into the mold, allowing it to 


form a dome about %4 inch high in the middle. (It 
will sink as it cools.) Cover with 4 or 5 butter-dipped 
bread strips. Pour any remaining clarified butter over 
the ends of the bread around the edges of the mold. 


Set in a pan (tg catch butter drippings) and bake in 


middle level of preheated oven for about 30 minutes. 
Slip a knife between bread and sides of mold; if bread 
is golden brown, the charlotte is done. Remove from 
oven and cool for 15 minutes. Reverse the mold on a 
serving platter and lift the mold up a few inches to 
see if the sides of the dessert will hold. If there is any 
suggestion of collapse, lower the mold over the dessert 
again; it will firm up as it cools. Test after 5 minutes 
or so, until the mold can safely be removed. 


Boil the apricot, rum, and sugar until thick and sticky. 


Spread it over the charlotte. Serve the dessert hot, 
warm, or cold, with the optional sauce or cream. 


POMMES NORMANDE EN BELLE VUE 


[Applesauce Caramel Mold—a warm or cold dessert] 


This is a much lighter dessert than the apple charlotte, and also much 


easier to prepare. 
For 6 people 


4 lbs. crisp cooking or eating 
apples 

A heavy-bottomed enameled 
pan (saucepan, casserole, 
or skillet) about 10 inches 
in diameter 


Peel and core the apples. Slice them roughly into 


78-inch pieces. You should have about 10 cups. Place 
them in the pan; cover and cook over very low heat 
for about 20 minutes, stirring occasionally, „until 
tender. 


FRUIT DESSERTS 


A wooden spoon 


1⁄4 tsp cinnamon 
The grated peel of 1 lemon 
Y cup granulated sugar 


14 cup rum, cognac, or ex- 
cellent apple brandy 

4 Tb butter 

4 eggs 

1 egg white 


A 6-cup, fireproof, cylindri- 
cal mold lined with cara- 
mel, page 584 

A lid or a plate 

A deep saucepan or kettle 

Boiling water 


A serving dish 


4 Tb rum, cognac, or apple 
brandy 

2 cups lightly whipped 
cream flavored with pow- 
dered sugar and rum or 
brandy, or 2 cups créme 
anglaise (custard sauce), 


page 588 


625 


. 4 
Preheat oven to 400 degrees. 





Beat the cinnamon, lemon peel, and sugar into the 
apples. Raise heat and boil, stirring, for 5 minutes or 
so, until the apples have reduced to a thick purée 
which will hold its shape in the spoon. You should 
have about 4 cups of applesauce. 


Remove from heat and stir in the rum or brandy, then 
the butter. One by one, beat in the eggs, then the egg 
white. 


Turn the apple mixture into the caramel-lined mold. 
Cover with lid or plate, and set in the saucepan or 
kettle. Pour boiling water around the outside of the 
mold to come up to the level of the apple mixture. 
Place in lower third of preheated oven. Regulate oven 
heat to maintain water almost at the simmer. The 
dessert is done in 1 to 1}, hours, when it begins to 
shrink from the sides of the mold and the top, all ex- 
cept for a small area in the very center, is set. 


To serve warm, remove the mold from the saucepan 
or kettle and allow the dessert to cool for 20 minutes. 
Then reverse it on a serving dish. To serve cold, chill 
the dessert 4 to 5 hours or overnight. Then run a 
knife around the edge of the dessert and reverse on a 
serving dish; in a few minutes it will dislodge itself 
from the mold. 


Simmer the rum or brandy in the mold to dissolve 
any remaining caramel, and strain over the dessert. 
Surround the dessert with the whipped cream or 
sauce. 


626 


CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 





POUDING ALSACIEN 
[ Gratin of Sautéed Apples—a cold dessert | 


This simple apple dessert is always better if prepared the day before it 
is eaten, as a good 24 hours are needed for a slow blending of flavors. 


For 6 to 8 people 


212 lbs. firm cooking apples 
(Golden Delicious) 


4 to 5 Tb butter 

A 10- to 12-inch skillet 

A lightly buttered baking 
dish, 8 to 9 inches in di- 
ameter and 2 inches deep 


34 cup plum jam, forced 
through a sieve 

2 Tb rum 

A rubber spatula 


4 Tb butter 

2 cup granulated sugar 

3 egg yolks 

1 Tb all-purpose flour 

12 tsp cinnamon 

1 cup fresh whole wheat or 
rye bread crumbs 


2 egg whites 


Pinch of salt 
Y, Tb granulated sugar 


Powdered sugar in a shaker 


` 


Quarter, core, and peel the apples. Cut into 14-inch 
lengthwise slices. You should have about 7 cups. 


Sauté the apples, one layer at a time, in hot butter un- 
til they are very lightly browned on both sides and 
tender, but retain their shape. As they are done, place 
them in the baking dish. 


Melt the plum jam in the skillet with the rum. Deli- 


cately fold into the apples, and smooth the apples in 
the dish. 


Preheat oven to 325 degrees. 


Cream the butter and sugar together in a mixing 
bowl until light and fluffy, page 581. Beat in the egg 
yolks, then the flour and cinnamon, and finally the 
bread crumbs. 


Beat the egg whites and salt until soft peaks are 
formed; sprinkle on the sugar and beat until stiff 
peaks are formed (page 159). Fold the egg whites into 
the bread-crumb mixture and spread evenly over the 
apples. 


Bake in middle level of preheated oven for 20 to 25 


minutes, or until top has puffed slightly and has just 


FRUIT DESSERTS 


627 


begun to color. Sprinkle liberally with powdered sugar 
and continue baking another 20 to 25 minutes; the 
top should be a nice golden brown under the sugar. 


Allow to cool, then chill, preferably for 24 hours. 


ASPIC DE POMMES 
[Rum-Flavored Apple Aspic, Unmolded—a cold dessert] 


Because the apples for this simple dessert are boiled in a heavy sugar 
syrup, they jell when chilled and can be unmolded on a serving dish. It makes 
a pretty effect with its decoration of glacéed fruits. Once made, the aspic may 
be kept molded or unmolded under refrigeration for at least 10 days. 


For 6 to 8 people 


3 lbs. cooking apples 


A heavy 12-inch enameled 
skillet 

3/4 cup water 

3 cups sugar 

1 Tb lemon juice 


A r-quart cylindrical mold 
1 tsp tasteless salad oil 
A round of waxed paper 


4 ounces (about 34 cup) 
glacéed fruits, such an red 
and green cherries, an- 
gelica, orange peel 


3 Tb dark rum 


Quarter, core, and peel the apples. Cut into length- 
wise slices 3% inch thick. You should have about 8 
cups. 


Bring water, sugar, and lemon juice to the boil, stir- 
ring until sugar has dissolved. Add the apples and 
boil over moderately high heat, stirring frequently to 
keep them from sticking and burning, for about 20 
minutes. They should become an almost transparent 
mass. 


While the apples are cooking, rub inside of mold 


with oil; oil the waxed paper and set in the bottom 


of the mold. 


Make a decorative design in the bottom of the mold 
with half the fruit. Dice the rest and add it to boil 
with the apples for 2 to 3 minutes at the end of the 
cooking. 


When apples are done, remove from heat and stir in 
the rum. Spoon into the mold and chill for 4 to 6 
hours, or until set. Serve as follows: 


628 


A chilled serving dish 
2 cups créme anglaise (cus- 
tard sauce), page 588 


CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 


Surround the mold with a hot towel for 10 to 15 sec- 


onds. Run a knife around edge of mold, and reverse 
the aspic onto a chilled serving dish. Surround with 
the sauce and serve. 


NN $$ ne 


POMMES A LA SEVILLANE 


x 


| Apples Braised in Butter, Orange Sauce—a hot or cold dessert] 


For 6 people 


6 unblemished Golden De- 
licious apples 

A mixing bowl containing 
2 quarts water and 2 Tb 
lemon juice 


A covered fireproof baking 
dish just large enough to 
hold the apples easily in 
one layer 

4 Tb butter 

34 cup granulated sugar 

2 cup dry white wine or 
dry white vermouth 

l2 cup water 

2 Tb cognac 

A round of buttered waxed 


paper 


2 or 3 brightly colored or- 
anges 
A vegetable peeler 


6 canapés (rounds of white 
bread sautéed in clarified 
butter), page 199 

A serving dish 

A slotted spoon 


Preheat oven to 325 degrees. 


One by one, peel and core the apples, and drop into 


the acidulated water. 


Smear inside of baking dish. with half the butter. 


Drain the apples and place them upright in the dish. 
Sprinkle with sugar and place a teaspoon of butter in 
the center of each apple. Pour the wine, water, and 
cognac around the apples. Lay the round of buttered 
paper on top. Bring just to the simmer on top of the 
stove. Cover and bake in lower third of preheated 
oven for 25 to 35 minutes; it is important that you 
maintain the liquid at the merest simmer to prevent 
the apples from bursting. When a knife pierces them 
easily, they are done. Be careful not to overcook them. 


While apples are cooking, remove the orange part of 


the skin with vegetable peeler. Cut into strips 2 inches 
long and % inch wide. Simmer 10 to 12 minutes in 
water until tender. Drain, rinse in cold water, and dry. 


Also while the apples are baking, prepare the canapés, 


and arrange on serving dish. When apples are done, 
place a drained apple on each canapé. 


FRUIT DESSERTS 


12 cup red currant jelly 
3 Tb cognac 


122 to 2 cups heavy cream 
or crème anglaise (cus- 
tard sauce) page 588 


629 


Beat the jelly into the apple cooking liquid and boil 


down quickly over high heat until thick enough to 
coat a spoon lightly. Stir in the cognac and the cooked 
orange peel, and simmer a moment. Spoon the sauce 
and orange peel over the apples. 


Serve them hot, warm, or cold, and pass the cream or 


sauce separately. 


ORANGES GLACEES 


[Glazed Oranges—a cold dessert] 


This recipe calls for whole, peeled oranges, placed in a bowl, then glazed 
with syrup and decorated with glazed orange peel. If you prefer sliced oranges, 
allow one to a serving, slice them crosswise, re-form the oranges horizontally 
in the serving dish, and glaze them. 


For 6 people 


6 large, brightly colored 
navel oranges 
A vegetable peeler 


A serving dish 2 inches deep 


2 cups granulated sugar 

73 cup water 

A small saucepan 

Optional: a candy ther- 
mometer 

Optional: green-colored 
glacéed fruit cut into leaf 
shapes 


Remove the orange part of the skins with a vegetable 


peeler and cut into strips ! inch wide and 2 inches 
long. Simmer in water for 10 to 12 minutes or until 
tender. Drain, rinse in cold water, and dry on paper 
towels. 


Cut the white part of the peel neatly off the oranges 


to expose their flesh. Cut a bit off one end of each, so 
it will stand up. Arrange oranges in the serving dish, 
with the flattened ends on the bottom. 


Boil the sugar and water in the saucepan to the firm 


ball stage (244 degrees). Immediately drop the 
blanched orange peel into the syrup and boil a moment 
or two until syrup has thickened again. Spoon peel 
and syrup over oranges and chill until serving time. 


630 


CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 





PÊCHES CARDINAL 
[Compote of Fresh Peaches with Raspberry Purée—a cold dessert] 


This is an especially nice dessert when both peaches and raspberries are 
in season. Though the taste is not quite as good, you can substitute fresh apri- 
cots or pears for the peaches, or use canned"fruit. Frozen raspberries do not 


make as thick a sauce as fresh ones, but are good anyway. 


For 10 people 


6 cups water 

2% cups granulated sugar 

2 Tb vanilla extract or a 
vanilla bean 

A 12-inch saucepan 


10 firm, ripe, unblemished, 
fresh peaches about 21⁄2 
inches in diameter 

A slotted spoon 

A cake rack 

A serving dish 2 inches deep 


x quart fresh raspberries, 
and 114 cups granulated 
sugar 

OR, 11% lbs. frozen raspber- 
ries, thawed and well 
drained, and 74 cup sugar 

An electric blender (or elec- 
tric beater) 


Optional: fresh mint leaves 


Simmer the water, sugar, and vanilla extract or bean 


in the saucepan and stir until sugar has dissolved. 


Add the unpeeled peaches to the simmering syrup. 


Bring again to the simmer, then maintain at just be- 
low the simmer for 8 minutes. Remove pan from heat 
and let peaches cool in syrup for 20 minutes. (Syrup 
may be used again for poaching other fruits.) Drain 
peaches on rack; peel while still warm, and arrange 
in serving dish. Chill. 


Force the raspberries through a sieve and place the 


purée in the jar of an electric blender along with the 
sugar. Cover and blend at top speed for 2 to 3 min- 
utes, or until purée is thick and sugar has dissolved 
completely. Chill. (Or beat purée and sugar for about 
10 minutes with an electric beater.) 


When both purée and peaches are chilled, pour the 


purée over the peaches and return to refrigerator un- 


til serving time. Decorate with optional fresh mint 
leaves. 





POIRES AU GRATIN 


[Pears Baked with Macaroons—a hot or cold dessert] 


For 6 people 


FRUIT DESSERTS 


2 lbs. fresh ripe pears or 
drained canned pears 

A baking dish about 2 
inches high and 8 inches 
in diameter, smeared with 


2 Tb butter 


4 Tb dry white wine or 
dry white vermouth, or 
canned pear juice 

Y% cup apricot preserves, 
forced through a sieve 


Y% cup pulverized maca- 
roons, page 583 

3 Tb butter cut into pea- 
sized dots 


FLAN DES ISLES 


631 
Preheat oven to 400 degrees. 


Peel, quarter, and core the pears. Cut into lengthwise 
slices about % inch thick. Arrange in overlapping 
layers in the baking dish. 


Beat the wine or pear juice and apricot preserves to- 
gether and pour over the pears. 


Sprinkle on the macaroons and distribute the butter 
over them. 


Bake in middle portion of preheated oven for 20 to 30 
minutes, or until top has browned lightly. Serve hot, 
warm, or cold. 


[Pineapple Custard, Unmolded—a cold dessert] 


For 6 to 8 people 


2% cups drained, canned, 
crushed pineapple, and 
1% cups syrup from the 
pineapple (or about 30 
ounces: a No. 2% and a 
No. 1 can) 

A 6-to 8-cup saucepan 


A wire whip 
1 Tb flour 


Boil the pineapple syrup for 5 minutes in the sauce- 
pan. Add the pineapple, bring again to the boil, and 
boil slowly 5 minutes more. 


Beat flour and lemon juice in the mixing bowl until 
blended, then beat in the kirsch or cognac, and the 


632 


3 Tb lemon juice 

A 3-quart mixing bowl 
Y cup kirsch or cognac 
5 Eggs 


A 6-cup, fireproof, cylindri- 
cal mold lined with cara- 
mel, page 584 

A deep saucepan 

Boiling water 


A serving platter 

3 Tb kirsch or cognac 

2 cups chilled créme an- 
glaise (custard sauce), 


page 588 


CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 


eggs. Gradually beat in the hot pineapple mixture in 
a thin stream of droplets. 


Pour the pineapple custard into the caramel-lined 
mold, and set mold in a deep saucepan. Pour boiling 
water around thé outside of the mold to come up to 
the level of the custard. Bring to the simmer on top 
of the stove, and maintain water barely at the simmer, 
always on top of the stove, for 1% to 114 hours. Cus- 
tard is done when it begins to shrink from the sides 
of the mold. A little circle in the center of the custard 
will remain creamy. 


Remove mold from water, let cool, then chill for 3 to 
4 hours or overnight. 


Reverse on a serving platter. Simmer kirsch or cognac 
in mold to dissolve remaining caramel. Strain it into 
the chilled créme anglaise, and pour the sauce around 
the custard. 


DESSERT TARTS 


Tartes Sucrées 


French dessert tarts, like French entrée tarts and quiches, are open faced 
and stand supported only by their pastry shells. They should be beautiful to 
look at, especially the fruit tarts which lend themselves to glittering arrange- 
ments of rosettes and overlapping circles. 


THE PASTRY 


The pastry for dessert tart shells is molded and baked in a flan ring or a 
false-bottomed cake pan so that the shell may bé unmolded. You may use either 
sweet short paste, which is ordinary short paste with sugar added, or pâte 
sablée, sugar crust, which, besides flour and butter, contains eggs and usually 
more sugar. We give proportions for both here, and refer you to the illustrated 
directions in the Entrée chapter for their molding and baking. 


DESSERT TARTS 633 


FLOUR 
Be sure to read the illustrated directions on how to measure flour, on 
page 17. All our recipes are based on this method; other measuring systems 
can give different results. Thé small proportion of vegetable shortening in- 
cluded with the butter in each pastry recipe gives a less brittle crust when you 
are using all-purpose flour. If you have pastry flour or French flour, you may 
use all butter, increasing it by the amount indicated for vegetable shortening. 


Pate Brisée Sucrée 
[Sweet Short Paste | 


Sweet short paste is made exactly like regular short paste except that 
sugar is mixed into the flour before you begin. 


AMOUNTS NEEDED 


For an 8- to g-inch shell, proportions for 114 cups flour 
For a 10- to 11-inch shell, proportions for 2 cups flour 


Proportions for 1 cup flour 


% cup flour (scooped and Place the flour in the bowl, mix in the sugar and salt, 


leveled, see page 17) then proceed to make the dough and mold the shell 
A mixing bowl either by hand or in the food processor as described 
1 Tb granulated sugar on pages 140-5. 


Y tsp salt 

522 Tb fat: 4 Tb chilled but- 
ter and 114 Tb chilled 
vegetable shortening 

24 to 3 Tb cold water 





Pate Sablée 
[Sugar Crust] 


Sugar crusts are particularly good with fresh fruit tarts, like the straw- 
berry tart on page 640. They are more delicate than sweet short paste shells 
because of their eggs and additional sugar. The more sugar you mix in, the 
more difficult it is to roll and mold the pastry because it is sticky and breaks 
easily; the larger proportion of sugar, however, makes a delicious crust, actu- 


ally a cooky dough. 


634 


CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 


By hand or by food processor. The following directions are for making 
the pastry by hand. Food processor directions are the same as for regular short 


paste dough, page 140. 


For a 9- to 10-inch shell 


113 cups flour (scooped and 
leveled, page 17) 

3 to 7 Tb granulated sugar 
(see remarks in preceding 
paragraph) 

14 tsp double-action baking 
powder 

7 Th fat: 5 Tb chilled butter 
and 2 Tb chilled vegetable 
shortening 

A 3-quart mixing bowl 

z egg beaten with x tsp wa- 
ter 

Y4 tsp vanilla extract 

A pastry board 

Waxed paper 


Place the flour, sugar, butter, vegetable shortening, 


and baking powder in the mixing bowl. Rub the fat 
and dry ingrediehts together rapidly with the tips of 
your fingers until the fat is broken into bits the size 
of small oatmeal flakes. Blend in the egg and vanilla, 
and knead the dough rapidly into a ball. Place on a 
pastry board and with the heel of your hand, not the 
palm, rapidly press the pastry by two-spoonful bits 
down on the board and away from you in a firm, 
quick smear of about 6 inches. (This final blending 
of fat and flour is illustrated on page 141.) The dough 
will be quite sticky if you have used the full amount 
of sugar. Form again into a ball, wrap in waxed paper, 
and chill for several hours until firm. 


Mold the pastry in a flan ring or false-bottomed cake 


pan as described and illustrated on page 143. Work 
rapidly if you have used the full amount of sugar, as 
the dough softens quickly. 





FULLY and PARTIALLY BAKED PASTRY SHELLS 
Sweet Short Paste Shells 


Sweet short paste shells, made from the formula in the first of the two 


preceding recipes, are baked exactly like regular short paste shells, directions 
for which are on page 146. You will note in these directions that shells may be 
fully or partially baked. Partial baking is for shells which are filled and baked 
again; this preliminary cooking sets the dough, and is a safeguard against 
soggy bottom crusts. A fully baked shell may be used for fresh fruit tarts, and 
and is an alternative to the sugar crust shell. 


Sugar Crust Shells 


Sugar crusts are usually fully baked, and must be watched while in the 
oven as they burn easily if the full sugar proportions have been used. Because 


DESSERT TARTS 635 


the dough is collapsible until it has firmed in the oven, it is essential that the 
dough be held in place against the sides of the mold by a lining of foil and 
beans or a bean-filled mold, as illustrated in the directions for molding on 
page 145. 

Bake the sugar crust shell in the middle level of a preheated, 375-degree 
oven for 5 to 6 minutes until the dough is set. Then remove the lining, prick 
the bottom of the pastry with a fork in several places, and bake for 8 to 10 
minutes more. The shell is done when it has shrunk slightly from the mold 
and begins to brown very lightly. Immediately remove the mold from the 


shell and slip the shell onto a rack. It will become crusty as it cools. 


LEFTOVER PASTRY DOUGH and SUGAR COOKIES 


Leftover dough, securely wrapped, will keep for several days in the 
refrigerator or may be frozen. Or use it for sugar cookies in the following 


recipe: 


Galettes Sablées 
[Sugar Cookies | 


Leftovers from either or 
both of the 2 preceding 
pastries 

A 1% inch cooky cutter 

Granulated sugar 

A baking sheet 

Optional: cinnamon 

r egg beaten in a small bowl 
with 1 tsp water 

A pastry brush 

A cake rack 


Roll out the dough to a thickness of 1⁄4 inch, and cut 


into rounds 1% inches in diameter. Spread a 14-inch 
layer of granulated sugar on your pastry board, lay a 
round of dough over it, and heap sugar on top. Roll 
the round into a sugar-coated oval about 2!4 inches 
long and place on the ungreased baking sheet. When 
all the cookies have been formed, sprinkle them with 
cinnamon if you wish. Paint tops with beaten egg. 
Bake in middle level of a preheated, 375-degree oven 
for 10 to 15 minutes, until lightly browned. Cool on 
a rack. 


ee nel 


TARTE AUX POMMES 
[Apple Tart—warm or cold] 


The classic French apple tart consists of a thick, well-flavored applesauce 
spread in a partially cooked pastry shell, Over it thinly sliced apples are placed 


636 


Apple Tart 


in an overlapping design 


glaze. 
For 8 people 


A 1o-inch partially cooked 
pastry shell set on a bak- 


ing sheet, page 634 


4 lbs. firm cooking apples 
(Golden Delicious) 

1 tsp lemon juice 

z Tb granulated sugar 

A 2-quart mixing bowl 


A 10-inch heavy-bottomed 
pan: enameled saucepan, 
skillet, or casserole 

A wooden spoon 

VY; cup apricot preserves, 
forced through a sieve 

Y% cup Calvados (apple 
brandy), rum, or cognac; 
or 1 Tb vanilla extract 

73 cup granulated sugar 

3 Tb butter 

Optional: 14 tsp cinnamon, 
and/or the grated rind of 
1 lemon or orange 


CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 





of circles. After baking, it is coated with apricot 


Use the sweet short paste on page 633 for your pastry 


shell. 


Quarter, core, and peel the apples. Cut enough to 
make 3 cups into even 14-inch lengthwise slices and 
toss them in a bowl with the lemon juice and sugar. 
Reserve them for the top of the tart. 


Cut the rest of the apples into rough slices. You should 
have about 8 cups. Place in the pan and cook, cov- 
ered, over low heat for about 20 minutes, stirring oc- 
casionally, until tender. Then beat in the ingredients 
at the left. Raise heat and boil, stirring, until apple- 
sauce is thick enough to hold in a mass in the spoon. 


Preheat oven to 375 degrees. 


DESSERT TARTS 


A cake rack or serving dish 

Y2 cup apricot. glaze, page 
593 

2 cups heavy cream, or 
créme fraiche, page 16 


637 


Spread the applesauce in the pastry shell. Cover with 
a neat, closely overlapping layer of sliced apples ar- 
ranged in a spiral, concentric circles, or as illustrated 
at the beginning of this recipe. 


Bake in upper third of preheated oven for about 30 
minutes, or until the sliced apples have browned 
lightly and are tender. Slide tart onto the rack or 
serving dish and spoon or paint over it a light coating 
of apricot glaze. Serve warm or cold, and pass with it, 
if you wish, a bowl of cream. 


* TARTE NORMANDE AUX POMMES 
[Custard Apple Tart—to be served hot] 


While this creamy apple tart may be eaten cold, it is at its best when hot 


or warm. It can be reheated. 


For 6 people 


An 8-inch partially baked 
pastry shell placed on a 
baking sheet, page 634 


1 lb. firm cooking apples 
(Golden Delicious) 

14 cup granulated sugar 

12 tsp cinnamon 


1 egg 
14 cup granulated sugar 


14 cup sifted flour 

*4 cup whipping cream 

3 Tb Calvados (apple 
brandy) or cognac 


Powdered sugar in a shaker 


Use the sweet short paste on page 633 for the pastry 
shell. Preheat oven to 375 degrees. 


Quarter, core, and peel the apples. Cut into 14-inch 
lengthwise slices. You should have about 3 cups. Toss 
them in a bowl with the sugar and cinnamon, then 
arrange them in the pastry shell. Bake in upper third 
of preheated oven for about 20 minutes, or until they 
start to color and are almost tender. Remove from 
oven and let cool while preparing the custard. 


Beat the egg and sugar together in a mixing bowl un- 
til mixture is thick, pale yellow, and falls back on it- 
self forming a slowly dissolving ribbon. Beat in the 
flour, then the cream, and finally the brandy. Pour 
the mixture over the apples. It should come almost to 
the top of the pastry shell. 


Return to oven for 10 minutes, or until cream begins 
to puff. Sprinkle heavily with powdered sugar and 


638 


A cake rack or serving dish 


CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 


return to oven for 15 to 20 minutes more. Tart is done 
when top has browned and a needle or knife plunged 
into the custard comes out clean. 


Slide tart onta' a rack or serving dish, and keep warm 


until ready to serve. 


TO 


VARIATION 
Tarte aux Poires 
[Pear Tart] 


N 


Using the same method and proportions, substitute sliced pears for the 


apples. 





LA TARTE DES DEMOISELLES TATIN 
[Upside-down Apple Tart—hot or cold] 


This is an especially good tart if your apples are full of flavor. It is cooked 
in a baking dish with the pastry on top of the apples. When done, it is reversed 
onto a serving dish and presents a lovely mass of caramelized apples. 


For 8 people 


4 lbs. firm cooking apples 
(Golden Delicious) 

13 cup granulated sugar 

Optional: 1 tsp cinnamon 


2 Tb softened butter 

A baking dish 9 to 10 inches 
in diameter and 2 to 214 
inches deep (pyrex is prac- 
tical, as you can see when 
the tart is done) 

Y cup granulated sugar 

6 Tb melted butter 


Chilled sweet short paste 
(proportions for 1 cup of 
flour), page 633 


Quarter, core, and peel the apples. Cut into length- 


wise slices 4 inch thick. Toss in a bowl with the 
sugar and optional cinnamon. You should have about 
10 cups of apples. 


Butter the baking dish heavily especially on the bot- 


tom. Sprinkle half the sugar in the bottom of the dish 
and arrange a third of the apples over it. Sprinkle 
with a third of the melted butter. Repeat with a layer 
of half the remaining apples and butter, then a final 
layer of apples and butter. Sprinkle the rest of the 
sugar over the apples. 


Preheat oven to 375 degrees. 


Roll out the pastry to a thickness of 4 inch. Cut it 


into a circle the size of the top of the baking dish. 
Place it over the apples, allowing its edges to fall 


DESSERT TARTS 


Aluminum foil, if needed 


A fireproof serving dish 
Powdered sugar, if needed 


2 cups heavy cream, or 
créme fraiche, page 16 


639 


against the inside edge of the dish. Cut 4 or 5 holes 
about ¥% inch long in the top of the pastry to allow 
cooking steam to escape. | 


Bake in lower third of preheated oven for 45 to 60 


minutes. If pastry begins to brown too much, cover 


lightly with aluminum foil. Tart is done when you 


tilt the dish and see that a thick brown syrup rather 
than a light liquid exudes from the apples between 
the crust and the edge of the dish. 


Immediately unmold the tart onto serving dish. If the 


apples are not a light caramel brown, which is often 
the case, sprinkle rather heavily with powdered sugar 
and run under a moderately hot broiler for several 
minutes to caramelize the surface lightly. 


Keep warm until serving time, and accompany with 


a-bowl of cream. (May also be served cold, but we 
prefer it warm.) 


* TARTE AUX ABRICOTS 
TARTE AUX PECHES 


[Fresh Apricot or Peach Tart—warm or cold] 


For 6 people 


An 8-inch partially cooked 
pastry shell placed on a 
baking sheet, page 634 


§ to 10 fresh apricots or 3 or 
4 freestone peaches 
Boiling water 


7; cup granulated sugar 
2 Tb butter cut into pea- 
sized dots 


For the shell use the sweet short paste on page 633. 


Drop the fruit in boiling water for 10 to 15 seconds. 
Peel, halve, and remove pits. Slice the fruit if you wish. 


Preheat oven to 375 degrees. 


Sprinkle 3 tablespoons of sugar in the bottom of the 
pastry shell. If the fruit is sliced, arrange it over the 
sugar in a closely overlapping layer of concentric cir- 


640 


4 cup slivered almonds 
2 cup apricot glaze, page 
593 


VARIATIONS 


CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 


cles. If it is halved, place the halves, domed side up, 
closely together in the shell. Spread on the rest of the 
sugar. Dot with the butter. 

Bake in middle level of preheated oven for 30 to 40 
minutes, or until fruit has colored: lightly and the 
juices have become syrupy. 

ne re 

Slip the tart onto a rack. Decorate with the slivered 
almonds, and spread on the apricot glaze. 





Serve warm or cold. 


Use the same system with plums, pears, or canned fruit. A nice combina- 
tion is slices of canned apricots alternating with slices of banana. 
Tartes Flambées Any of these tarts may be famed with liqueurs as they 


are brought to the table, as described in the recipe for cherry tart, page 643. 


* TARTE AUX FRAISES 
[Fresh Strawberry Tart—cold] 


Fresh fruit tarts are easy to make, pretty to look at, and refreshing to eat. 
They consist of a fully baked tart shell which is lined with liqueur-flavored 





Fresh Strawberry Tart 





DESSERT TARTS 


641 


crème pâtissière (custard filling). The fresh fruit is arranged over the filling 
and topped with apricot or red currant glaze. Other suggestions follow this 


recipe. 
For 8 people 


A 10-inch fully baked pastry 
shell, page 634 


x quart large, ripe, hand- 
some strawberries 


A cake rack 


1 cup red currant jelly 

2 Tb granulated sugar 

2 Tb kirsch or cognac 

Optional: a candy ther- 
mometer 

A pastry brush 


1, to 2 cups chilled crème 
pâtissière (custard fill- 
ing), page 590, with 2 to 3 
Tb kirsch or cognac 


Use either the sweet short paste, or the sugar crust 
for your tart shell. Recipes begin on page 633. 


Hull the strawberries. If necessary to wash them, do so 
very quickly, and drain them on a rack. 


Boil the currant jelly, sugar, and liqueur in a small 
saucepan until last drops from spoon are sticky (228 
degrees). Paint the interior of the shell with a thin 
coating of the glaze and allow to set for 5 minutes. 
This will give the shell a light waterproofing. Reserve 
the rest of the glaze for the strawberries. Warm it 


briefly if it has hardened. 


Spread a 14-inch layer of crème pâtissière in the bot- 
tom of the pastry shell. 


Arrange a design of strawberries over the cream. 
Put the largest strawberry in the center, and graduate 
down in size, placing the berries closely together, their 
stem ends in the cream. Spoon or paint over them a 
thin coating of the glaze, and the tart is ready to serve. 
(*) Because of the glazed waterproofing in the bottom 
of the shell, the filled tart may wait an hour or so. 





VARIATIONS 


Using the same method as that for the preceding strawberry tart, substi- 
tute a layer of peeled and seeded grapes, sliced bananas, raspberries, or poached 


642 CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 





Mixed Fruit Tart 








or canned peaches, apricots, plums, or pears. Follow the above illustration for 
design. 


TARTE AUX POIRES À LA BOURDALOUE 
[Pear and Almond Tart—tepid or cold] 


For 6 people 


1¥4 to 2 lbs. firm, ripe, un- Peel and halve the pears. Neatly stem and core them 
blemished pears with a grapefruit knife. Drop each half, as it is pre- 





Pear Tart 








2 cups cold water and 1 Tb pared, into the acidulated water to keep it from discol- 
lemon juice in a mixing oring. 


bowl 





2 cups red Bordeaux wine 


Bring the wine, lemon juice, sugar, and cinnamon to 
2 Tb lemon juice 


the boil in the saucepan. Drain the pears, and drop 
34 cup granulated sugar into the boiling syrup; bring liquid to just below the 


DESSERT TARTS 


x stick or 14 tsp cinnamon 

A 3-quart enameled sauce- 
pan 

A slotted spoon 

A rack 


Optional: 
mometer 

Y cup red currant jelly in a 
small saucepan 

A wooden spoon 


a candy ther- 


A xo-inch fully cooked 
sugar-crust shell, page 633 


2⁄4 cups chilled frangipane 
(almond custard), page 
591, with 2 Tb kirsch 


Optional: 1⁄4 cup slivered al- 
monds 


643 


simmer for 8 to 10 minutes or until pears are tender 
when pierced with a knife. Do not overcook; they 
must hold their shape. Remove saucepan from heat 
and let pears cool in the syrup for 20 minutes. Drain 
the pears on a rack. 


Rapidly boil down the syrup to the thread stage (230 


degrees). Measure out 1⁄4 cup of syrup and simmer it 
with the red currant jelly until jelly has dissolved and 
the syrup coats the spoon with a light glaze. 


Paint the inside of the shell with a thin layer of the 


pear and jelly glaze. 


Spread the frangipane in the pastry shell. Cut the 


pears into crosswise or lengthwise slices and arrange 
them over the custard. 


Decorate with the optional almonds. Spoon a light 


coating of the glaze over the top of the tart. 


TARTE AUX CERISES, FLAMBEE 
[Cherry Tart Flambée | 


For a spectacular entrance, sprinkle sugar over a cooked fruit tart, cara- 


melize it briefly under the broiler, pour on liqueur, and ignite it as you enter 
the dining room. The following recipe is for cherries; you may use the same 
technique for the apricot or peach tart on page 639, and for the variations 
following it. 


The cherries 


You may use canned Bing cherries or defrosted frozen cherries instead 
of fresh for this recipe. In this case, omit the first step in the directions, drain the 
cherries thoroughly, and let them stand for at least half an hour with 3 table- 
spoons of kirsch or cognac and as much sugar as you feel they need. Drain 
them again just before using, and beat their kirsch or cognac into the cream 
filling. 

For 6 people 


Wash and pit the cherries. Bring the wine, lemon 
juice, and sugar to the boil. Drop in the cherries, and 


3 cups fresh black cherries 
1 cup red Bordeaux wine 


644 


2 Tb lemon juice 

6 Tb granulated sugar 

A 2-quart enameled sauce- 
pan 


An 8-inch, fully cooked 
pastry shell, page 634, set 
in a fireproof serving 


dish 


1⁄2 cups cold crème pátis- 
sière (custard filling), 
page 590, or frangipane 
(almond custard), page 
591, with 2 Tb kirsch or 


cognac 


3 Tb granulated sugar 

%4 cup kirsch or cognac, 
warmed in a small sauce- 
pan 


CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 


bring the liquid to just below the simmer for 5 to 6 
minutes or until cherries are tender, but retain their 
shape. Allow cherries to cool in the syrup for 20 to 30 
minutes. Drain. 


Use either of the sweet pastry recipes beginning on 
page 633. If you wish to fill the tart shell some time 
before serving, paint the interior with a thin coating of 
red currant glaze, page 594. 


Fold the drained cherries into the custard, and spread 
the mixture in the tart shell. 


Preheat broiler to moderately hot. 


Immediately before serving, sprinkle the sugar over 
the surface of the tart and run it under the broiler for 
2 to 3 minutes to caramelize the sugar lightly; be care- 
ful it does not burn. Just before entering the dining 
room, pour the warm liqueur over the hot caramelized 
surface. Avert your face and ignite the liqueur with a 
lighted match; bring the flaming tart to the table. 


TARTE À L'ANANAS 


[Pineapple Tart] 
For 6 people 


1 No. 2 can of sliced pine- 
apple, pineapple wedges, 
or crushed pineapple (114 
cups fruit and about 3⁄4 


cup syrup) 


12 cup red currant jelly 

2 Tb kirsch or cognac 

Optional: a candy ther- 
mometer 


Drain the pineapple. Boil the canned pineapple. syrup 


for 5 minutes in a saucepan. Add the pineapple and 
boil for 5 minutes more. Drain the pineapple, and 
allow it to cool. 


+ 


Boil the pineapple syrup with the jelly and liqueur 


until it reduces to a glaze (last drops are sticky when 
dropped from a spoon, 228 degrees). 


DESSERT TARTS 


A pastry brush 

An 8-inch, fully cooked, 
sugar-crust shell, page 633 

122 to 2 cups chilled crème 
patissiére (custard fill- 
ing), page 590, with 2 to 3 
Tb kirsch or cognac 


Optional: 1⁄4 cup diced red 
and green glacéed fruit 
and 1⁄4 cup slivered al- 
monds 


645 


Paint the interior of the shell with a coating of the 
pineapple glaze. Spread.the crème pâtissière in the 
pastry shell. d 


When the pineapple is cold, arrange it over the filling. 
Decorate with the optional glacéed fruits and al- 
monds. Spoon a light coating of pineapple glaze over 
the top. 


TARTE AU CITRON 
TARTE AUX LIMETTES 
[Lemon or Lime Soufflé Tart—hot] 


This delicious, light tart is really a soufflé. The same filling is also attrac- 
tive in little tart shells served for afternoon tea. Speaking of these, see also the 
lemon butter filling on page 676. 


For 8 people 


A xo-inch, cooked, sugar- 
crust shell placed on a 
baking sheet, page 633 
(use only 3 Tb sugar in 
the pastry) 


A wire whip or electric 
beater 

A 3- to 4-quart stainless steel 
bowl 

Y cup granulated sugar 


4 egg yolks 


When you bake the shell let it barely color so it will 
not brown too much when it goes again into the oven. 


Preheat oven to 325 degrees. 


Gradually beat the sugar into the egg yolks and con- 
tinue beating until mixture is thick, pale yellow, and 
falls back on itself forming a slowly dissolving ribbon. 
Beat in the rind and juice. Set bowl over not-quite- 
simmering water and stir with wooden spoon until 
mixture is too hot for your finger (165 degrees), and 


646 


The grated rind of 1 lemon 
or 2 limes 

3 Tb lemon juice or lime 
juice 

A pan of not-quite-simmer- 
ing water 

A wooden spoon 

Optional: a candy ther- 
mometer 


4 egg whites 


A pinch of salt 
14 cup granulated sugar 


Powdered sugar in shaker 


CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 


thickens enough to coat the spoon lightly. Be careful 
not to overheat it and scramble the egg yolks. 


Beat the egg whites and salt until soft peaks are 


formed; sprinkle on the sugar and continue beating 
until stiff peaks are formed (page 159). Fold the egg 
whites delicately into the warm lemon or lime mix- 
ture and turn into the tart shell. 


Bake for about 30 minutes in middle level of preheated 


oven. When tart has begun to puff and color, sprinkle 
with powdered sugar. It is done when top is lightly 
brown, and a needle or knife plunged into the center 
comes out clean. 


If you cannot serve it immediately, leave in turned-off 


hot oven with the door ajar. It will sink slightly as it 
cools. (May be served hot, warm, or cold but we think 
it is best hot.) 


TARTE AU CITRON ET AUX AMANDES 
[Lemon and Almond Tart—cold] 


For 6 people 


An 8-inch, cooked, sugar- 
crust shell placed on a 
baking sheet, page 633 
(use only 3 Tb sugar in 
the pastry) 


3 lemons 
A vegetable peeler 


When you bake the shell, let it barely color so it will 


not brown too much when it goes again into the oven. 


Remove the yellow part of the lemon skin with a vege- 


table peeler; cut into julienne strips 146 inch wide 
and 214 inches long. Simmer 10 to 12 minutes in wa- 
ter. Drain thoroughly. 


DESSERT TARTS 


2 cups granulated sugar 

73 cup water 

I tsp vanilla extract 

A small saucepan 

Optional: a candy ther- 
mometer 


An electric beater or wire 
whip 

2 eggs 

12 cup granulated sugar 

A 3-quart mixing bowl 


34 cup (4 ounces) pulverized 
almonds, page 582 
14 tsp almond extract 


The grated rind and 
strained juice of 1% 
lemons 
A rack 


647 


Boil the sugar and % cup of water to the thread stage 
(230 degrees); add the vanilla and lemon peel. Let 
stand for 30 minutes. 


Preheat oven to 325 degrees. 


Beat the eggs and sugar in a mixing bowl for 4 to 5 
minutes, or until mixture is thick, pale yellow and falls 
back on itself forming a slowly dissolving ribbon. 


Beat in the almonds, almond extract, lemon rind, and 
lemon juice. Pour this almond cream into the pastry 
shell and bake in middle level of preheated oven for 
about 25 minutes. Tart is done when cream has puffed, 
browned very lightly, and a needle or knife plunged 
into the cream comes out clean. Slide tart onto rack. 


Drain the strips of lemon peel and strew them over 
the tart. Boil their syrup down until it is a glaze (last 
drops are sticky when fall from spoon, 228 degrees), 
and spoon a thin coating over the top of the tart. This 
tart is usually served cold, but may be eaten warm if 
you wish. 


* TARTE AU FROMAGE FRAIS 
[Cream Cheese Tart—hot or cold] 


This is really a quiche, and very simple indeed to make. 


For 6 people 


An 8-inch partially baked 
pastry shell placed on a 
baking sheet, page 634 


Use the recipe for sweet short paste on page 633. 


Preheat oven to 375 degrees. 


648 CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 





14 lb. (x cup) cream cheese Cream the cheese, butter, and sugar together in a mix- 
4 ounces (x stick) softened ing bowl. Beat in the eggs and nutmeg. Turn into pas- 


unsalted butter try shell and bake in upper third of preheated oven for 
24 cup granulated sugar 25 to 30 minutes. Tart is done when it has puffed and 
A 3-quart mixing bowl browned, and a needle or knife plunged into the cen- 
A wooden spoon or electric ter comes out clean. 

beater * 
2 eggs 


Big pinch of nutmeg 


Tart will sink slightly as it cools. It may be served hot 
and puffed, or warm, or cold. It may also be reheated, 
but will not puff again. 





VARIATION 
Tarte au Fromage Frais et aux Pruneaux 
[Cream Cheese and Prune Tart] 


14 cup “tenderized” prunes Soften prunes for 5 minutes in hot water. Drain, re- 

14 cup (about 3 ounces) move pits, and dice the prunes. Stir prunes, almonds, 
pulverized almonds, page and almond extract into tart mixture after the eggs 
582 have been beaten in. 

4 tsp almond extract 


DESSERT CREPES 
Crépes Sucrées 


Dessert crépes, especially if they are for crépes Suzette, should be as thin 
and delicate as possible. There are numerous varying recipes for making them; 
some use egg yolks, others use whole eggs, and still others specify cream rather 
than milk. The lightness of crépes made from the following recipe can be at- 
tributed to the use of milk diluted with water. If you wish a heavier crépe, use 
all milk, or light cream. The batter for dessert crépes, like that for entrée 
crépes, must rest at least 2 hours before using. 


METHOD FOR COOKING CREPES 


The procedure for cooking crépes is described and illustrated in the En- 
trée chapter on page 191. You may wish to sauté them in clarified butter, page 
15, rather than in oil and butter. As dessert crépes are fragile, you will proba- 


DESSERT CRÈPES 649 


bly find it best to lift them with your fingers to turn and cook them on the 
other side. | | 

Crêpes may be made several hours before serving time. Pile them in a 
dish, cover with waxed paper and a plate to keep them from drying out. 


CREPES FINES SUCREES 
[Light Batter—for crépes Suzette] `` 


(If you do not have an electric blender proceed as follows: Gradually 
work the egg yolks into the flour with a wooden spoon, beat in the liquids by 
droplets, then strain the batter through a fine sieve.) 


For 10 to 12 crépes 6 inches in diameter, or 16 to 18 crépes 4 to 5 
inches in diameter 


34 cup milk Place the ingredients in the blender jar in the order 


34 cup cold water in which they are listed. Cover and blend at top speed 
3 egg yolks for 1 minute. If bits of flour adhere to sides of jar, dis- 
1 Tb granulated sugar lodge with a rubber scraper and blend 3 seconds more. 


3 Tb orange liqueur, rum, Cover and refrigerate for at least 2 hours or overnight. 
or brandy 

r cup flour (scooped and 
leveled, page 17) 

5 Tb melted butter 

An electric blender 

A rubber scraper 


CREPES A LA LEVURE 
[Yeast Batter—for stuffed crépes] 


The addition of yeast makes a more tender and slightly thicker crépe. 


Ingredients for the preced- Warm 1% cup of the milk to blood temperature (about 

ing crépe batter go degrees) and allow the yeast to dissolve in it. Add 

112 tsp fresh or dry yeast it to the rest of the ingredients in the blender and pro- 
ceed with the recipe. 


Cover the batter with a towel and let it stand at room 
temperature for about 2 hours, or until the yeast has 
worked and the batter looks bubbly on top. Use imme- 
diately, or the yeast will overferment. 


650 


CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 


I 


CREPES SOUFFLEES 
[Raised Batter—for stuffed crépes] 


Beaten egg whites folded into the batter makes the crépes puff slightly. 


Ingredients for one of the 
preceding crépe batters, 
either plain or with yeast 

3 egg whites 

Pinch of salt 


After the batter has rested for 2 hours, and just before 
you wish to make your crépes, beat the egg whites and 
salt until stiff. Fold half into the batter, fold in the 
other half, then make the crépes. 





CREPES SUZETTE 
[Crépes with Orange Butter, Flambées] 


Every chef has his own recipe for crépes Suzette; of the many we have 
tried, we find this one especially good. Obviously if you plan to perform in 
public with a chafing dish, it is a good idea to practice on your family until 
you become adept at folding and flaming. Crépes 4 to 5 inches in diameter are 
a convenient size, and three of these per person is the usual serving. 


For 6 people 


The orange butter (in a food processor, or by hand and electric mixer) 


For the processor: ¥2 cup 
granulated sugar 

By hand: 4 large sugar 
lumps and 1⁄4 cup sugar 

2 bright-skinned oranges 

A vegetable peeler 

A rubber spatula 

14 tb. unsalted butter 

14 to % cup strained orange 
juice 

3 Tb orange liqueur 


For the processor (steel blade), place the 4 cup of 
sugar in the container along with the orange part of 
the peel (stripped from the fruit). Process for a min- 
ute or so, scraping down sides of bowl with a rubber 
spatula as necessary, until peel and sugar are finely 
blended. Cut the butter into pieces, and process until 
smooth and almost fluffy. By droplets, cream in ¥, 
cup of the orange juice, then the orange liqueur, plus 
droplets more of the juice if the mixture will take it 
and still remain creamy. Cover and refrigerate. 

By hand and electric mixer, first rub the sugar 
lumps over the oranges until all sides have absorbed 
the oil from the skin. Mash the lumps on a board, add 
the orange part of the peel from the fruit, and the 4 
cup of sugar. Chop until very finely minced. Scrape 
into a bow! and cream in the butter with an electric 


DESSERT CRÈPES 651 


mixer, then 4 cup of orange juice, the liqueur, and 
more juice if possible. Cover and refrigerate. 


The chafing dish finish r 


18 cooked crépes 4 to'5 Use the recipe for crépes fines sucrées, page 649. 
inches in diameter 


A chafing dish set over an Place the orange butter in the chafing dish and heat 
alcohol flame until it is bubbling. 


A spoon and fork Dip both sides of a crépe in the butter. Its best-looking 
side out, fold it in half and in half again, to form a 
wedge. Place it at the edge of the chafing dish. Rap- 
idly continue with the rest of the crépes until all have 
been dipped, folded, and arranged. 


2 Tb granulated sugar Sprinkle the crépes with the sugar. Pour over them 
134 cup orange liqueur the orange liqueur and cognac. Avert your face and 
3 cup cognac ignite the liqueur with a lighted match. Shake the 


chafing dish gently back and forth while spooning the 
flaming liqueur over the crépes until the fire dies 
down. Serve. 


CREPES FOURREES ET FLAMBEES 


[Crêpes with Orange-almond Butter, Flambées | 


These crépes are stuffed with orange-flavored almond butter, and may be 
flamed in a chafing dish, or brought flaming to the table as suggested here. 
For 6 to 8 people 


The orange-almond butter 


Y, cup pulverized almonds, Beat the almonds or macaroons and almond extract 
page 582, or pulverized into the orange butter. 
macaroons, page 583 

14 tsp almond extract 

The orange butter in the 
preceding recipe 


Filling the crépes 


18 cooked crépes 4 to 5 Use any of the 3 crépe recipes starting on page 649. 
inches in diameter Spread the butter on the less good side of each 


652 


A lightly buttered baking 
dish suitable for serving 


Flaming the crépes 


3 Tb granulated sugar 


3 cup orange liqueur and 
3 cup cognac warmed in 
a small saucepan 


A  long-handled 
spoon 


serving 


CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 


cooked crépe, and fold into wedge shapes, or roll 
them, to enclose the butter filling. Arrange in the 
baking dish. 

(*) If not to be heated immediately, cover with 
waxed paper and refrigerate. 


Shortly before serving time, sprinkle with sugar and 
set in a preheated, 375-degree oven for 10 to 15 min- 
utes until dish is very hot and crépes are beginning 
to caramelize on top. 


Just before entering the dining room, pour the warm 


orange liqueur and cognac over the hot crépes. Avert 
your face, ignite crépes with a lighted match, and 
bring them blazing to the table. The server tilts the 
dish and spoons the flaming liqueur over the crépes 
until the fire dies down. 


CREPES FOURREES, FRANGIPANE 
[ Crépes with Almond Cream] 


This is a much lighter filling than the preceding orange-almond butter. 
It may be set aflame if you wish, or served with chocolate as suggested in the 


recipe. 
For 6 people 


12 cooked crépes 6 inches in 
diameter 


1% cups frangipane (al- 
mond custard), page 591 

A lightly buttered baking- 
serving dish 

2 ounces or squares of semi- 
sweet baking chocolate 

2 Tb melted butter 

1 Tb granulated sugar 


Use any of the three recipes for crépes beginning on 


page 649. 


Spread 2 tablespoons of frangipane on the less-good 


side of each crépe. Fold the crépes into wedge shapes, 
or roll them, to enclose the filling, and arrange in the 
baking dish. Grate the chocolate over the crépes, 
sprinkle on the melted butter, then the sugar. 


About 20 minutes before serving, set in a preheated 


350-degree oven until the chocolate has melted. Serve 
hot or warm. 


DESSERT CREPES 


653 


GATEAU DE CREPES A LA NORMANDE 
[Mound of Crépes with Apples, Flambé] 


Instead of stuffing each crépe separately, you can pile them one upon the 
other with a layer of filling between each, as in this recipe. 


For 6 to 8 people 


2 lbs. crisp cooking or eat- 
ing apples 

A heavy-bottomed, 3-quart 
pan: saucepan, casserole, 
or skillet 

A wooden spoon 

Y% cup granulated sugar, 
more if needed 


2 Tb whipping cream 

4 tsp almond extract 

2 Tb Calvados (apple 
brandy), cognac, or dark 
rum 


10 to 12 cooked crépes 6 
inches in diameter 


A lightly buttered baking- 
serving dish 

12 cup (3 ounces) pulverized 
almonds, page 582, or pul- 
verized macaroons, page 
583 

2 Tb slivered almonds or 
pulverized macaroons 

2 Tb melted butter 

2 Tb granulated sugar 


Quarter, core, and peel the apples. Chop them 


roughly. You should have about 5 cups. Cook in a 
covered pan over low heat for about 20 minutes, stir- 
ring occasionally, until apples are tender. Uncover, 
add sugar, raise heat and boil, stirring, for 5 minutes 
or more. Applesauce should reduce and be thick 
enough to hold itself in a fairly solid mass in the 
spoon. Add more sugar while the apples are cooking 
if you feel it necessary. 


Stir the cream, almond extract, and brandy or rum 
into the applesauce. 


Use the raised batter recipe for crépes soufflées on page 


650. 


Center a crépe in the bottom of the dish. Spread a 
layer of apples over it and sprinkle with a scant table- 
spoon of almonds or macaroons. Continue with layers 
of crépe, apples, and almonds, ending with a crépe. 
This will look like a many-layered cake. Sprinkle the 
almonds or macaroons over the last crépe. Pour on 
the butter and sprinkle with the sugar. 


About 30 minutes before serving, place in the upper 
third of a preheated, 375-degree oven to heat through 
thoroughly. The sugar on top of the mound should 
almost begin to caramelize. Serve as follows: 


654 | CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 





1, cup Calvados (apple Just before entering the dining room, pour the warm 
brandy), cognac, or dark brandy or rum over the hot mound of crépes. Avert 
rum, warmed in a small your face, set liqueur aflame with a lighted match, 


saucepan and bring the blazing dessert to the table. The server 
A long-handled serving should spoon the flaming liqueur over the dessert un- 
spoon til the fire subsides, then cut portions from the mound 


as from a cake. , 


nn —<—<$<——<— 


OTHER FILLINGS FOR CREPES 


Here are some other ideas following the general method in any of the 
preceding recipes. Flame the crépes or not, as you wish. 


Fresh Fruits 


Let strawberries, raspberries, or sliced bananas stand in a bowl with a 
sprinkling of sugar and kirsch, orange liqueur, or cognac for an hour, then 
use as a filling. 


Stewed Fruits 


Any of the following may be folded into an equal amount of crème på- 
tissière (custard filling), page 590, and then used for stuffed crêpes or a mound 
of crépes: 

Apples, peeled, sliced, sautéed in butter, then sprinkled with sugar and 
cinnamon 

Pears, peeled, poached in red-wine syrup, as in tarte aux poires à la 
Bourdaloue, page 642, then diced and sprinkled with crumbled macaroons 

Peaches, apricots, or plums poached in syrup, using the system for poach- 
ing peaches in péches cardinal, page 630, then drained, peeled, and diced 

Pineapple (crushed, canned pineapple), drained, the syrup boiled for 5 


minutes, then the pineapple boiled in the syrup for 5 minutes more and 
drained 


Jams, Preserves, and Jellies 


These simple fillings make a delicious dessert when the crépes are flamed 
with liqueur. To prepare them, mix a little kirsch, cognac, or orange liqueur 
into red currant jelly, or raspberry, strawberry, apricot, or cherry jam or pre- 
serves. Stir in also, if you wish, some crumbled macaroons. Spread the filling 
on the crépes, roll, fold them, or pile them into a mound in a fireproof dish. 


FRUIT FLANS 655 


Sprinkle with melted butter and granulated sugar, and set in a preheated, 
375-degree oven until thoroughly heated. Flame ia warmed liqueur just as 
you bring them to the table. 





FRUIT FLANS 
Clafoutis 
x  CLAFOUTI | 
[Cherry Flan] 


The clafouti (also spelled with a final “s” in both singular and plural) 
which is traditional in the Limousin during the cherry season is peasant cook- 
ing for family meals, and about as simple a dessert to make as you can imagine: 
a pancake batter poured over fruit in a fireproof dish, then baked in the oven. 
It looks like a tart, and is usually eaten warm. 

(If you have no electric blender, work the eggs into the flour with a 
wooden spoon, gradually beat in the liquids, then strain the batter through a 
fine sieve.) 

For 6 to 8 people 


Preheat oven to 350 degrees. 


3 cups pitted black cherries Use fresh, black, sweet cherries in season. Otherwise 
use drained, canned, pitted Bing cherries, or frozen 
sweet cherries, thawed and drained. 


11⁄4 cups milk Place the ingredients at left in your blender jar in the 
Y cup granulated sugar order in which they are listed. Cover and blend at top 
3 eggs speed for 1 minute. 


1 Tb vanilla extract 

V8 tsp salt 

12 cup flour (scooped and 
leveled, page 17) 

An electric blender 


A 7- to 8-cup lightly but- Pour a 14-inch layer of batter in the baking dish or 
tered, fireproof baking pie plate. Set over moderate heat for a minute or two 
dish or pyrex pie plate until a film of batter has set in the bottom of the dish. 
about 114 inches deep Remove from heat. Spread the cherries over the bat- 


656 


An asbestos mat, if necessary 
3 cup granulated sugar 


Powdered sugar in a shaker 


CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 


ter and sprinkle on the sugar. Pour on the rest of the 
batter and smooth the surface with the back of a 
spoon. 

Place in middle position of preheated oven and bake 
for about an hour. The clafouti is done when it has 
puffed and browned, and a needle or knife plunged 
into its center ‘comes out clean. Sprinkle top of 
clafouti with powdered sugar just before bringing it 
to the table. (The clafouti need not be served hot, but 
should still be warm. It will sink down slightly as it 
cools.) 





VARIATIONS 


The clafouti in the preceding master recipe is the simple and classic ver- 


sion. Here are some variations: 


Clafouti à la Liqueur 


[Cherry Flan with Liqueur] 


Ingredients for the preced- 
ing clafouti 

14 cup kirsch or cognac 

73 cup granulated sugar 


Follow the master recipe but first let the cherries stand 
for 1 hour in the kirsch or cognac and sugar. Substi- 
tute this liquid for part of the milk called for in the 
batter; omit the 4 sugar near the end of the recipe. 


Clafouti aux Poires 


[Pear Flan] 


Ingredients for the master 
clafouti with changes as 
indicated 

3 cups peeled, cored, and 
sliced ripe pears (114 to 
112 lbs. pears) 

V4 cup sweet white wine, 
kirsch, or cognac 

3 cup granulated sugar 


Follow the master recipe with these changes: Substi- 
tute pears for cherries, and let stand for 1 hour in 
wine, kirsch, or cognac and sugar. Substitute this 
liquid for part of ‘the milk called for in the batter; 
omit the 4 cup of sugar near the end of the recipe. 


FRUIT FLANS 


657 





Clafouti aux Pruneaux 


[Plum Flan] 


Ingredients for the master 
clafouti with changes as 
indicated 

r lb. firm, ripe plums 

Boiling water 

Y% cup orange liqueur, 
kirsch, or cognac 

Y, cup sugar 





Follow the master recipe with these changes: Substi- 
tute plums for cherries, and drop in boiling water for 
exactly ro seconds. Peel. Slice them or leave whole. 
Let stand with liqueur, kirsch, or cognac and sugar 
for 1 hour. Substitute this liquid for part of the milk 
called for in the batter; omit the 4 cup sugar near 
the end of the recipe. 


Clafouti aux Pommes 


[Apple Flan] 


Ingredients for the master 
clafouti with changes us 
indicated 

About 11⁄4 lbs. crisp eating 
or cooking apples 

3 to 4 Tb butter 

An enameled skillet 

14 cup Calvados (apple 
brandy), dark rum, or 
cognac 

¥ tsp cinnamon 

l3 cup sugar 


Follow the master recipe with these changes: Substi- 


tute apples for cherries; peel, core, and cut them into 
lengthwise slices % inch thick. You should have 
about 3 cups. Sauté to brown very lightly in hot but- 
ter, then let stand in the skillet for ! hour with the 
brandy or rum, cinnamon, and sugar. Substitute this 
liquid for part of the milk called for in the batter; 
omit the 1⁄4 cup sugar near the end of the recipe. 





Clafouti aux Múres 


Clafouti aux Myrtilles 
[Blackberry or Blueberry Flan] 


Ingredients for the master 
clafouti or the variation 
following it with changes 
as indicated 

3 cups (about 1% lbs.) 
stemmed and washed 
blackberries or blueberries 


Follow the master recipe or the variation after it with 


these changes: Substitute berries for cherries and, be- 
cause berries are very juicy, increase the flour for your 
batter from % to 144 cups. 


658 CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 


er 


Clafouti a la Bourdaloue 


[Cherry or Pear Flan with Almonds] 


Ingredients for either of the Follow the master recipe for cherry flan, or the varia- 
2 cherry flans, or for the tion after it,.or the recipe for pear flan, but purée the 
pear flan almonds in the blender with the milk called for in 

Y cup blanched almonds your batter. Add the almond extract, and proceed 
(can be bought in a can) with the recipe. 

1 tsp almond extract 





BABAS AND SAVARINS 
Babas et Savarins 


Babas and savarins always seem to delight guests, and they are not difh- 
cult to make if you have any feeling at all for doughs and baking. They may 
be cooked a day or two ahead. They freeze perfectly; all you need to do to 
make them ready to imbibe their syrup is to pop them from the freezer into a 
300-degree oven, to warm through for about 5 minutes. _ 

Whenever you are working with yeast doughs, do so in a warm place 
free from drafts; a sudden chill can cause the dough to fall. So that the dough 
will rise in one to two hours, cover it with a damp towel and set it where the 
temperature remains between 80 and 100 degrees. If you can control the heat 
and have a thermometer, put it in a plate-warming oven, or in a baking oven, 
heating briefly every once in a while to maintain the correct temperature. Or 
place the covered bowl on a pillow over the radiator. If you allow the dough 


to rise too much, or too long, or at too warm a temperature, it will develop a 
taste of overfermented yeast. 





* PATE A BABA ET BABAS 
| Baba Paste and Babas] 


For about 12 babas 
Mixing the paste 
4 Tb butter Melt the butter, and let it cool to tepid while you are 
preparing the other ingredients. 


BABAS AND SAVARINS 


1 Tb dry active yeast 

3 Th tepid water 

A 3-quart mixing bowl 
A wire whip 

a Tb granulated sugar 
V8 tsp salt 

2 “large” eggs 


rl cups flour (scooped and 
leveled, page 17) 


A wooden speon 


Kneading the paste 


659 


Blend the yeast and water in the bowl with a wire 
whip and let stand until yeast has dissolved com- 
pletely. Beat in the sugar, salt, and eggs. 


(Be sure to measure your flour correctly to get a soft 
pliable dough.) Mix the flour and the cool melted 
butter into the yeast with a wooden spoon. 


Then with the fingers of one hand held together and 
slightly cupped, knead the dough by lifting it, slap- 
ping it, and pulling it vigorously against the sides of 
the bowl for about 5 minutes. It will be very sticky at 
first, but will gradually detach itself from the bowl 
and from your hand. It has been worked to sufficient 
elasticity and body when you can grasp it in both 
hands, pull it to a length of 10 to 12 inches, and give 
it a full twist without breaking it. (Nore: If you are 
doubling the recipe, you will have to remove the 
dough from the bowl and knead it by pulling and 
slapping it between your hands, like taffy.) 


Preliminary rising in a bowl 


1 tsp flour 


Final rising in molds 


1 Tb softened butter 
12 baba, popover, or muffin 
cups or muffin tins, about 


Form it into a ball in the bottom of the bowl. Cut a 
cross an inch deep on top and sprinkle the ball with 
the flour. Cover the bowl with several thicknesses of 
damp towel and let it rise in a warm place, 80 to 100 
degrees, for 14 to 2 hours, or until the dough has 
doubled in bulk. 


Again with the cupped fingers of one hand, gently 
deflate the dough by gathering it from the sides of 
the bowl to the center. 


Butter inside of cups. Lightly break off about a table- 
spoon of dough, enough to fill a third of a cup, and 
press it lightly into the bottom of the cup. Do not 


660 


CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 





Cylindrical Baba Mold, 2 
Inches Deep and 2 Inches 
in Diameter 








z inches deep and 2 inches 
in diameter 


Baking 


Babas au Rhum 
[Rum Babas] 


bother to even the top of the dough as it will smooth 
out as it rises. 


Place the cups, uncovered, again in a warm place and 
allow to rise 1 to 2 hours more, or until the dough is 
14 inch over the rim of the cups. 


As soon as the dough has risen this second time—and 
do not delay or it may collapse—bake in the upper 
third of a preheated, 375-degree oven for about 15 
minutes. The babas should be nicely browned, and 
slightly shrunk from the sides of the cups. Unmold 
them onto a cake rack. 


Both the babas and the rum syrup should be lukewarm but not hot before 
this operation begins. If the babas are cold, heat them briefly in the oven; warm 
the syrup if necessary. (NOTE: Some authorities use a stronger sugar syrup, 
1}, cups of sugar to 2 of water. We prefer the lighter syrup given here.) 


For 12 babas 


The sugar syrup 


2 cups water 

1 cup granulated sugar 

A 1-quart saucepan 

V2 cup dark rum, more if 
needed (Jamaican rum is 
recommended) 


Bring the water and sugar to a boil. Remove from 
heat and stir until sugar has dissolved. When the 
sugar syrup has cooled to lukewarm, stir in the rum; 
you may add a few tablespoons more if you feel it 
necessary. 


BABAS AND SAVARINS 


661 


The babas imbibe the syrup 


12 barely warm cooked 
babas, the preceding rec- 
ipe a 

A dish 2 inches deep and 
just large enough to hold 
the babas easily 

A skewer, trussing needle 
or sharp-pronged fork 

Optional: a bulb baster 

A cake rack set over a tray 


TO SERVE 


Arrange the barely warm babas in the dish, their 
puffed tops up. Prick tops in several places, pour the 
lukewarm syrup over them, and let stand for 4 hour, 
basting frequently with syrup. They should imbibe 


“enough syrup so they are moist and spongy but still 


hold their shape. Drain on rack for 4 hour. 


Babas au Rhum, Classique 


[Rum Babas] 


2 Tb dark rum 

A pastry brush 

2 cup apricot glaze, page 
593 

12 glacéed. cherries 

A serving dish or frilled 
paper cups 


Babas aux Fruits 


After the babas have drained, sprinkle the top of each 
with a few drops of rum. Paint them with the apricot 
glaze, and place a cherry on top of each. Arrange in 
a serving dish or in paper cups. 


[Rum Babas with Fruit] 


A serving dish 

3 to 4 cups blueberries or 
fresh strawberries 

Leftover baba syrup 

2 to 3 cups créme Chan- 
tilly, (lightly whipped 
cream), page 580, flavored 
with rum and powdered 
sugar 


Arrange the babas in the serving dish. Surround them 


with the berries which have stood for 10 to 15 minutes 
in leftover baba syrup. Pass the cream separately. 


662 
X SAVARIN 


[Savarin ] 


CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 





Large Savarin or Ring 
Mold, 7 to 9 Inches in 
Diameter. Small Savarin 
Mold, 21⁄4 to 4 Inches in 
Diameter 





The savarin uses the same paste or dough as the baba, but is baked in a 
ring mold, and its sugar syrup is flavored with kirsch rather than rum. The 
center is then filled with a cream or with fruits macerated in liqueur. 


For 6 people 
Filling the mold 


1 Tb softened butter 

A 4- to 5-cup ring mold 2 
inches deep 

The master recipe for baba 
paste, page 658 


Baking the savarin 


Aluminum foil 
A cake rack 


Butter the ring mold. Make the baba paste as di- 
rected and let it rise in its bowl until doubled in bulk. 
Deflate it by pressing it rapidly in several places with 
the cupped fingers of one hand. Then break off a 
2-tablespoon bit of the paste and press lightly into the 
bottom of the mold. Continue rapidly with the rest 
of the paste. The mold will be from a third to a half 
filled. Do not bother to smooth the surface of the 
paste; it will even out as it rises. Place uncovered in 
a warm place, 80 to 100 degrees, for 1 to 2 hours or 
until the paste has risen to fill the mold. Proceed at 
once to the following step. 


Preheat oven to 375 degrees in time for this step. 





Insert a cylinder of aluminum foil through the hole 
in the center of the mold; this will help the savarin 
rise evenly in the oven. Place in the middle level of 
the oven and bake for about 30 minutes. If top of 
savarin browns too much during baking, cover lightly 


BABAS AND SAVARINS 


663 


with aluminum foil. The savarin is done when it is 
toasty brown and has begun to shrink a little from the 
sides of the mold. Remove from oven and let cool for 
5 minutes. Reverse rack over mold, reverse the two, 
remove the mold. When savarin has cooled to tepid, 
proceed to the following step. 

(*) It may be baked a day or two in advance, then 
heated briefly to tepid in a 300-degree oven. 


The savarin imbibes the syrup 


2 cups sugar syrup (rum 
baba recipe), page 660, 
but flavored with 1⁄2 cup 
kirsch rather than rum 

A skewer, trussing needle, 
or sharp-pronged fork 

A dish 2 inches deep and 
just large enough to hold 
the savarin easily 

A bulb baster 

A cake rack 

A tray 


A serving dish 


1 Tb kirsch 


TO SERVE 


While the savarin is baking, make the same sugar 
syrup as that for the babas, but perfume it with kirsch 
rather than rum. Let it cool to tepid. Prick the puffed 
side of the barely warm savarin and place it puffed- 
side down in the dish. Pour the tepid syrup over it 
and allow to stand for 4 hour, basting frequently 
with the syrup. The savarin should be moist and 
spongy, but still hold its shape. Then tilt the dish 
and pour out the remaining syrup (which may be 
reserved for flavoring fruits). Turn the rack upside 
down over the dish and reverse the dish onto the rack 
to unmold the savarin. Set rack on tray and let the 
savarin drain for about '4 hour. 


The savarin is now resting puffed-side up on the rack; 
it is usually served puffed-side down. The safest way 
to get it from the rack to the serving dish is to turn 
the dish upside down over the savarin on the rack; 
then reverse the rack onto the dish. 


Sprinkle the savarin with drops of kirsch before deco- 
rating and filling as directed in one of the following 
suggestions: 


Savarins are usually painted with a glaze into which are pressed designs 
of almonds and glacéed fruits, or fresh strawberries or raspberries. The center 
is filled with whipped cream, custard filling, or fruits. The following recipe 
gives the general procedure for glazing, decorating, and filling; other sug- 


gestions are listed after it. 


664 CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 


EE eo 


Savarin Chantilly 
[Savarin with Whipped Cream] 


The preceding savarin Paint the sayarin with a light coating of apricot glaze. 
34 cup apricot glaze, page Cut the cherries in half, and the angelica into small 

593 diamond shapes. Press the fruits and almonds over 
A pastry brush the savarin in a decorative design and paint a bit of 
6 to 8 glacéed cherries glaze over them. Fill the center of the savarin with 
A piece of angelica the cream just before serving. 


8 to 12 blanched almonds 

2 cups crème Chantilly 
(lightly whipped cream), 
page 580, flavored with 
powdered sugar and 
kirsch 





OTHER FILLINGS 


Instead of whipped cream, you may use a custard or fruit filling. In the 
case of fruit fillings, decorate glazed savarin with the fruits you are using 
rather than with almonds and glacéed fruits. Between 114 and 2 cups of cus- 
tard filling are sufficient. If you are using fruits, you will probably want more; 
fill the center of the savarin with them, and heap the rest around the outside. 
The fruits are usually flavored with 3 to 4 Tb kirsch for 3 to 4 cups fruit, and 
several tablespoons of sugar, if necessary (or use leftover imbibing syrup). 

Frangipane, custard filling with almonds or macaroons, flavored with 
vanilla and kirsch, page 591 

Crème Saint-Honoré, crème pâtissière with beaten egg whites, flavored 
with vanilla and kirsch, page 591 

Macédoine de Fruits, a mixture of cut-up fruits, such as cherries, pears, 
apricots, pineapple, either fresh, poached in syrup as for the péches cardinal 
on page 630, or canned. Let stand for 4 hour in kirsch, and sugar if necessary, 
before using. 

Fresh strawberries or raspberries, which have stood for % hour with 
sugar and kirsch : 


Cherries, poached in red wine syrup, as for the cherry tart on page 643 


BABAS AND SAVARINS 665 





VARIATION 
Petits Savarins 


[Small Savarins| 


Small savarins are baked in the small molds illustrated at the beginning 
of the savarin recipe; they range in diameter from 21⁄4 inches for tea parties 
to 3 or 4 inches for individual dessert servings. 


MOLDING, BAKING, AND SYRUPING 


Proceed exactly as for the large savarin on page 662, but omit the alumi- 
num-foil funnel, and bake for only 10 to 15 minutes. Saturate them with 
kirsch-flavored syrup as directed for the large savarin. The proportions in the 
recipe will furnish about 12 small savarins 24% inches in diameter or about 6 
savarins 3 inches in diameter. 


TO SERVE 


You may paint small savarins with apricot glaze, page 593, decorate with 
glacéed fruits cut into diamond shapes, and serve them as they are, or you may 
fill them. If you fill them and do not intend to serve them on dessert plates, it 
is best to set them on small rounds of baked sugar-crust dough, page 633. Paint 
the rounds first with the apricot glaze, then glaze and decorate the savarins. 
Use any of the fillings suggested for the large savarin in the preceding list. 


LADYFINGERS 
Biscuits ala Cuiller 


Biscuits à la cuiller are among the oldest of the French petits gâteaux secs. 
Before pastry tubes were invented, the batter for ladyfingers was dropped onto 
baking sheets with a spoon, and this is how they acquired their French name. 

Because store-bought ladyfingers are usually so dreadful in taste and 
texture that they cannot be used in good cooking, it is useful to know how to 
make your own. They can be made quickly when you become familiar with the 
process and will keep at least ro days in an airtight container or freeze per- 
fectly. With homemade ladyfingers on hand, you will find many of the spec- 
tacular desserts in the preceding pages not at all formidable. These include the 
charlotte Chantilly on page 608, the charlotte Malakoff, on page 605, and the 


666 


CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 


diplomate on page 612. Then there are the easily assembled plombières on 
page 594, which consist of custard filling, beaten egg whites, and ladyfingers 
dipped in liqueur. To serve ladyfingers with afternoon tea, you may hold them 
together back to back with a bit of butter cream, page 680. 

Batter for ladyfingers is of the sponge-cake type, with egg yolks and sugar 
beaten to a thick cream, then flour and stiffly beaten egg whites are folded in. 
You must be particularly careful to obtain a`batter which will hold its shape; 
this means expert beating and folding. A batter that is too liquid will form 
flat rather than rounded ladyfingers. Be sure to read the illustrated directions 
on beating egg whites and folding which start on page 159. 


0 


BISCUITS À LA CUILLER 
[Ladyfingers] 


For 24 to 30 ladyfingers 
Preheat oven to 300 degrees. 


Two 12- by 24-inch baking Prepare the baking sheets: buts lightly, dust with 


sheets flour, and knock off excess flour. Assemble the pastry 
1 Tb softened butter bag. Prepare the powdered sugar. Measure out all the 
Flour rest of the ingredients listed in the recipe. 


A pastry bag with a round 
tube opening 1⁄2 inch in 
diameter 

14 cups powdered sugar in 
a sieve or a shaker 


The batter 
An electric beater or a wire Gradually beat the sugar into the egg yolks, add the 
whip vanilla, and continue beating for several minutes until 
2 cup granulated sugar the mixture is thick, pale yellow, and forms the rib- 
3 egg yolks bon, page 579. 


x tsp vanilla extract 
A 3-quart mixing bowl 


3 egg whites 
Pinch of salt 
1 Tb granulated sugar 


Beat the egg whites and salt together in a separate 
bowl until soft peaks are formed. Sprinkle on .the 
sugar and beat until stiff peaks are formed. (Direc- 
tions are on page 159.) 


LADYFINGERS 667 


A rubber spatula Scoop one fourth of the egg whites over the top of 
Y, cup all-purpose flour the egg yolks and sugar mixture. Sift on one fourth 
(scooped and leveled, page of the flour, and delicatély fold in until partially 
17), turned into a flour blended. Then add one third of the remaining egg 
sifter | whites, sift on one third of the remaining flour, fold 
until partially blended, and repeat with half of each, 
‘then the last of each. Do not attempt to blend the mix- 
ture too thoroughly or you will deflate the batter; it 

must remain light and puffy. 


Forming the ladyfingers 


Scoop batter into pastry bag. Squeeze out even lines onto the prepared baking 
sheets, making finger shapes 4 inches long and 114 inches wide, spaced 1 inch apart. 
Sprinkle with a 46-inch layer of powdered sugar. To dislodge some of the excess 
sugar, hold baking sheet upside down and tap the back of it gently; the ladyfingers 
will not budge unless you are rough with them. 


Baking the ladyfingers 


Bake in middle and upper third levels of preheated oven for about 20 minutes. 
The ladyfingers are done when they are a very pale brown underneath their sugar 
coating. They should be slightly crusty outside, and tender but dry inside. If they 
are not baked enough, they will become soggy when they cool; overbaking makes 
them dry. As soon as they are done, remove from baking sheets with a spatula and 
cool on cake racks. 


To serve 


Ladyfingers may be served as they are, with tea or fruit desserts. Or you may 
make double ladyfingers by sticking the two flat sides together with apricot glaze, 
page 593, or one of the butter creams starting on page 680. 


FIVE FRENCH CAKES 
Cing Gâteaux 


Here are five unusually good and typically French cakes. They are all 
made in very much the same way, but as there are slight differences in mixing 
and in how each should look in the oven, we give full recipes for all five. After 
you have practiced with one or two, you will find that they all can be made 
very quickly; any one of them may be prepared for the oven in about 20 
minutes. An electric beater is a help in mixing the batters but is far from es- 
sential, because a large wire whip does the work almost as quickly. 


668 CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 


PRELIMINARY REMARKS 


Before you begin the cake 

Preheat the oven, prepare the cake pan as in the following directions, 
and measure out all your ingredients. Then your batter may be prepared and 
baked in one, continuous operation. 

Preparing the cake pan , 

To prepare the pan for the cake batter, rub the entire inner surface with 
a thin film of softened butter. Then roll flour around in the pan to cover the 
sides and bottom; knock out excess flour by banging the pan, upside down, 
on a hard surface. A light dusting of flour should adhere all over the inner 
surface of the pan; this will rake the cake easy to unmold (remove) after 
baking. 

Flour 

Measure flour as accurately as possible; this is essential in cakemaking. Be 
sure to read the illustrated directions for measuring flour on page 17. 

Egg yolks, sugar, and butter 

Directions for beating egg yolks and sugar until they “form the ribbon” 
are on page 579. Directions for creaming butter and sugar are on page 581. 

Egg whites 

You will note that no baking powder is used in any of the cakes; their 
lightness is due to the careful folding of perfectly beaten egg whites into the 
batter. As this is one of the most important aspects of successful cakemaking, 
be sure to read the illustrated directions on egg whites in the Entrée chapter 
starting on page 159. 

Temperature 

Oven temperature must be correct if the cake is to bake and rise as it 
should. Check your thermostat with an oven thermometer. 

Unmolding 

After the cake is done, your recipe will usually direct you to let it sit in its 
pan for a few minutes; it will settle, and shrink slightly from the sides of the 
pan. Unmold the cake as follows: Run a thin knife between the cake and 
the edge of the pan. Then, if you are using a one-piece pan, turn a cake rack 
upside down over the pan, reverse the two, and give a short, sharp, downward 
jerk to dislodge the cake onto the rack. For a false-bottomed pan, either use 
the same general system, or set the pan over a jar to release the rim from the 
false bottom; remove the cake from the false bottom to a rack with a spatula, 
or reverse the cake onto a rack. [Directions in recipes refer to a one-piece pan. | 


CAKES 669 


Icings l 

A cake must be thoroughly cold before it is iced; if you ice a warm or 
even a tepid cake with butter cream, the icing will seften and usually dribble 
down the sides of the cake. Illustrated directions for filling and icing cakes are 
in the pair of recipes beginning on page 672. 

Storage \ 

After any of the following cakes has been baked and thoroughly cooled, 
but before it has been covered with icing, it may be stored for several days in 
an airtight container, or may be securely wrapped and frozen. Cakes iced with 
butter creams should be stored in the refrigerator. 


BISCUIT AU BEURRE 


[Butter Spongecake | 


This fine, light spongecake may be served with a sprinkling of powdered 
sugar, and goes well with tea, or with fruits. It is also delicious as a strawberry 
shortcake. Or you may fill and decorate it as suggested at the end of the recipe. 

For a 10-inch cake serving 10 to 12 people 


A round cake pan, 10 inches 
in diameter and 2 inches 


deep 
4 Tb butter 


A 3-quart mixing bowl 

An electric beater or large 
wire whip 

74 cup granulated sugar 


4 egg yolks 
2 tsp vanilla extract 


4 egg whites 

Pinch of salt 

2 Tb granulated sugar 

A rubber spatula 

34 cup cake flour (scooped 
and leveled, page 17), 
turned into m flour sifter 


Preheat oven to 350 degrees. 


Butter and flour the cake pan, page 668. Measure out 


the ingredients. 


Melt the butter and set aside to cool. 


Gradually beat the sugar into the egg yolks, add the 


vanilla, and continue beating for several minutes un- 
til mixture is thick, pale yellow, and forms the rib- 


bon, page 579. 


Beat the egg whites and salt together in a separate 


bowl until soft peaks are formed; sprinkle on the 
sugar and beat until stiff peaks are formed. (Direc- 
tions are on page 159.) Scoop one fourth of the egg 
whites over the top of the egg yolks and sugar mix- 
ture. Sift on one fourth of the flour, and delicately 
fold in until partially blended. Then add one third of 
the remaining egg whites, sift on one third of the 
remaining flour, fold until partially blended, and re- 


670 


A cake rack 


TO SERVE 
Sucre Glace 


[Powdered Sugar | 


CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 


peat with half of each, then the last of each and half 
of the tepid, melted butter. When partially blended, 
fold in the rest of the butter but omit the milky 
residue at the bottom of the pan. Do not overmix; 
the egg whites must retain as much volume as 
possible. 


Turn into prépared cake pan, tilting pan to run bat- 
ter to the rim all around. Set in middle level of pre- 
heated oven and bake for 30 to 35 minutes. Cake is 
done when it has puffed, is lightly brown, and has 
just begun to show a faint line of shrinkage from the 
edges of the pan. 


Remove from oven and let stand in the pan for 6 to 8 


minutes. It will sink slightly and shrink more from 
the edges of the pan. Run a knife around the edge of 
the pan, and reverse on cake rack, giving the pan a 
sharp little jerk to dislodge the cake. If cake is not to 
be iced, immediately reverse it so its puffed side is 
uppermost. Allow to cool for an hour or so. 


Shake powdered sugar over the cake. 





Glaçage al’ Abricot 


[Apricot Glaze with Almonds or Glacéed Fruits] 


A pastry brush 

Y2 cup apricot glaze, page 
593 

1 cup pulverized almonds, 
page 582 

4 cup slivered almonds or 
glacéed fruits 


Follow the general procedure for icing a cake illus- 


trated on page 674:‘Brush crumbs off top and sides 
of cake, paint cake with apricot glaze. Brush almonds 
against the sides and decorate top with slivered al- 
monds or with glacéed fruits cut into dice or fancy 
shapes. 


CAKES 


671 


Glaçage à la Crème ou au C bocolat 


[Butter-cream or Chocolate Icing] 


4 


The spongecake may be iced, or filled and iced. Follow the recipe for 
orange-butter filling on page 672, or that for the orange butter-cream, page 674. 
Or, using the same procedure, follow one of the recipes for butter cream start- 
ing on page 680, or for the chocolate-butter icing on page 684. 


GÂTEAU À L’ORANGE 


[Orange Spongecake | 


For a 9-inch cake serving 8 people 


A round cake pan 9 by 1⁄2 
inches 


A whip or electric beater 

73 cup granulated sugar 

4 egg yolks 

A 3-quart mixing bowl 

The grated rind of 1 orange 

13 cup strained orange juice 

Pinch of salt 

34 cup cake flour (scooped 
and leveled, page 17), 
turned into a sifter 


4 egg whites 
Pinch of salt 
1 Tb granulated sugar 


Preheat oven to 350 degrees. 


Butter and flour the cake pan, page 668. Measure out 


the ingredients. 


Gradually beat the sugar into the egg yolks and con- 


tinue beating until the mixture thickens to form the 
ribbon, page 579. Add the grated orange peel, orange 
juice, and salt. Beat for a moment or two until mix- 
ture is light and foamy. Then beat in the flour. 


Beat the egg whites and salt together in a separate 


bowl until soft peaks are formed. Sprinkle on the 
sugar and beat until stiff peaks are formed. (Direc- 
tions are on page 159.) Stir one fourth of the egg 
whites into the batter, delicately fold in the rest. 


Immediately turn into prepared cake pan and run the 


batter up to the rim all around. Bake in middle posi- 
tion of preheated oven for 30 to 35 minutes. Cake is 
done when it has puffed and browned, and shows a 
faint line of shrinkage from the edge of the mold. 


672 


A cake rack 


CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 


Let cool for 6 to 8 minutes. Run a knife around the 
edge of the pan and reverse cake on a rack. If not to 
be iced, immediately reverse again, puffed side up. Al- 
low to cool for an hour or two. When cake is cold, 
sprinkle it with powdered sugar, or fill and ice the 
cake according to one of the two following recipes: 


L 





DIRECTIONS FOR FILLING AND ICING À CAKE 


Gâteau Fourré à la Crème d'Orange 


[Spongecake with Orange,butter Filling] 


This orange-butter filling may be used for cakes, or as a filling for tartlets 
or cookies. When softened butter is beaten into it, as described in the variation 
at the end of the recipe, it may also serve as an icing. 

For about 2 cups, enough to fill a 9- to 10-inch cake 


The orange-butter filling 


6 Tb unsalted butter 

124 cups granulated sugar 

2 eggs 

2 egg yolks 

The grated rind of 1 orange 

4 cup strained orange juice 

1 Tb orange liqueur 

A 6-cup enameled saucepan 

A wire whip 

Optional: a candy ther- 
mometer 


A pan of cold water 


Filling the cake 


A 9- to ro-inch cake: the 
preceding orange sponge- 
cake or the butter sponge- 
cake on page 669 

A long, sharp, thin knife 


Place all the ingredients at the left in the saucepan 
and beat with wire whip over low heat or not-quite- 
simmering water until mixture thickens like honey. 
When it is cooking properly, the bubbles that first ap- 
peared on its surface as it is heated will begin to sub- 
side, and if you look closely you wiil see a little whiff 
of steam rise; it will be too hot for your finger. You 
must heat it enough to thicken, but overheating will 
(of course) scramble the egg yolks. 


Then set saucepan in cold water and beat for 3 to 4 
minutes until filling is cool. 
(*) May be refrigerated for 10 days, or may be frozen. 


? 


Cut a tiny vertical wedge up the edge of the cake; 
this will guide you in re-forming it later. Slice the 
cake in half horizontally. 


CAKES 67 3 








Splitting the cake 

in half 

A flexible blade-spatula Using a spatula, spread enough orange-butter filling 
on the lower layer of the cake to make a 14-inch coat- 
ing. 





Icing the 
bottom layer 





Replace top layer, lining 
up with wedge 








674 CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 


Decorating the cake with apricot glaze and almonds 


A pastry brush Brush off any crumbs, and paint the cake with a coat- 
7; cup apricot glaze, page ing of apricot glaze. When the glaze has set slightly, 
593 brush the almonds against the sides of the cake; not 


1 cup pulverized almonds, more than one fourth of them will adhere, but you 
plain or toasted, page 582 need a large amount for easy manipulation. Set the 
A dish for the almonds cake on the platter; decorate top with optional orange 
A cake platter peel. 
Optional: % cup glazed 
orange peel, page 587 


Hold cake over almonds 
and brush them against 
sides with free hand 








VARIATIONS 
Crème au Beurre à Orange 
[Orange Butter-cream Icing] 


For a richer filling, or for an icing, you may turn the preceding filling 
into a crème au beurre, which resembles the butter cream on page 683. In the 


following recipe, we have suggested that you use half the original orange- 


CAKES 


675 


butter filling for inside the cake, and beat butter into the rest to make a butter- 


cream icing. 


For 1 cup filling and 2 cups icing, enough for a 9- to 10-inch cake 


- 2 cups orange-butter filling, 
the preceding recipe 

A 3-quart mixing bowl 

A wire whip or an electric 
beater 

14 Ib. (1 stick) softened, 
unsalted butter, 2 to 3 Tb 
more if necessary 


Icing the cake 


A flexible blade-spatula 

A cake platter 

Optional: 14 cup glazed 
orange peel, page 587 


Use 1 cup of the filling to spread inside your cake as 
described in the preceding recipe. Re-form the cake. 
Place the rest of the filling in the mixing bowl and 
gradually beat in the softened butter. The mixture 
should thicken into a smooth, mayonnaiselike cream; 
if it looks grainy, beat in more butter a tablespoon at 
a time. Chill until firm but still of spreading consist- 
ency. 


(Nore: Be sure cake is thoroughly cold before you 
begin this operation.) 


Brush crumbs off cake. Hold the cake in the palm 
of your hand as illustrated (or ice it on its serving 
platter). Spread on the icing with the spatula, starting 
at the top of the cake, and finishing with the sides. 
Set the cake on the platter. Decorate, if you wish, with 
pieces of glazed orange peel. Refrigerate the cake un- 
til ready to serve. 

(*) Leftover butter cream may be refrigerated for 
about a week, or may be frozen. Before using, let 
warm at room temperature until it can be beaten into 
spreading consistency. 





Spread icing on top of 
cake first, then smooth it 
around sides 








676 


CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 





Crème au Citron 


[Lemon-butter Filling] 


Crème au Beurre au Citron 


[Lemon Butter-cream Icing] a 


Use the same method and proportions as in either of the two preceding 
recipes, but substitute grated lemon rind and lemon juice for orange. 


GÂTEAU A L'ORANGE ET AUX AMANDES 
[Orange and Almond Spongecake] 


This delicious cake may be served with a sprinkling of powdered sugar, 
with a glazing of apricot, or with a filling and icing. 
For a 9-inch cake serving 8 people 


A round cake pan, 9 by 114 
inches 


14 1b. butter 


A whip or electric beater 

73 cup granulated sugar 

3 egg yolks 

A 3-quart mixing bowl 

The grated rind of 1 orange 

Ys cup strained orange juice 

Y, tsp almond extract 

34 cup (4 ounces) pulverized 
almonds, page 582 

Y2 cup cake flour (scooped 
and leveled, page 17), 
turned into a sifter 


3 egg whites 
Pinch of salt 
1 Tb granulated sugar 


Preheat oven to 350 degrees. 


Butter and flour the cake pan, page 668. Measure out 
all the ingredients. 


Melt the butter and set aside. 


Gradually beat the sugar into the egg yolks and con- 


tinue beating until mixture is thick, pale yellow and 
forms the ribbon, page 579. Add the grated orange 
rind, orange juice, and almond extract. Beat for a mo- 
ment or two until mixture is light and foamy. Then 
beat in the almonds, and finally the flour. 





Beat the egg whites and salt together in a separate 
bowl until soft peaks are formed; sprinkle on the 
sugar and beat until stiff peaks are formed. (Direc- 
tions are on page 159.) 


CAKES 677 


A rubber spatula Using a rubber spatula, fold the cool, melted butter 
into the cake batter, omitting milky residue at bottom 
of butter pan. Stir one fourth of the egg whites into 
the batter, delicately fold in the rest. 


Immediately turn into prepared cake pan and run the 
batter up to the rim all around. Bake in middle level 
of preheated oven for 30 to 35 minutes. Cake is done 
when it has puffed, browned lightly, top is springy 
when pressed, and a needle plunged into the center 
of the cake comes out clean. 


A cake rack Remove from oven and let stand for about 10 min- 
utes, until cake begins to shrink from sides of pan. 
Run a knife around the edge of the pan and reverse 
the cake onto the rack, giving it a small, sharp, down- 
ward jerk to dislodge it from the pan. If it is not to be 
iced, reverse the cake immediately so it will cool 
puffed-side up. Allow to cool for an hour or two. 


TO SERVE 


Serve with a sprinkling of powdered sugar, or with apricot glaze and 
almonds, page 674, or with the orange-butter filling or butter-cream icing de- 
scribed for the orange sponge cake and starting on page 672. 


REINE DE SABA 
[Chocolate and Almond Cake] 


This extremely good chocolate cake is baked so that its center remains 
slightly underdone; overcooked, the cake loses its special creamy quality. It 
is covered with a chocolate-butter icing, and decorated with almonds. Because 
of its creamy center it needs no filling. It can be made in the same manner as 
the preceding cakes, starting out with a beating of egg yolks and sugar, then 
proceeding with the rest of the ingredients. But because the chocolate and the 
almonds make a batter so stiff it is difficult to fold in the egg whites, we have 
chosen another method, that of creaming together the butter and sugar, and 
then incorporating the remaining items. 

For an 8-inch cake serving 6 to 8 people 


Preheat oven to 350 degrees. 


678 


A round cake pan § inches 
in diameter and 14 inches 
deep 

4 ounces or squares semi- 
sweet chocolate melted 
with 2 Tb mm or coffee 


A 3-quart mixing bowl 

A wooden spoon or an elec- 
tric beater 

14 lb. or 1 stick softened but- 
ter 

24 cup granulated sugar 


3 egg yolks 


3 egg whites 
Pinch of salt 
x Tb granulated sugar 


A rubber spatula 

4 cup pulverized almonds, 
page 582 

Y tsp almond extract 

Y% cup cake flour (scooped 
and leveled, page 17), 
turned into a sifter 


A cake rack 


CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 


Butter and flour the cake pan, page 668. Set the choco- 


late and rum or coffee in a small pan, cover, and 
place (off heat) in a larger pan of almost simmering 
water; let melt while you proceed with the recipe. 
Measure out the rest of the ingredients. 


= 
Cream the butter and sugar together for several min- 


utes until they form a pale yellow, fluffy mixture, 
page 581. 


Beat in the egg yolks until well blended. 


Beat the egg whites and salt in a separate bowl until 
soft peaks are formed; sprinkle on the sugar and beat 
until stiff peaks are formed. (Directions are on page 
159.) 


With a rubber spatula, blend the melted chocolate 


into the butter and sugar mixture, then stir in the 
almonds, and almond extract. Immediately stir in 
one fourth of the beaten egg whites to lighten the 
batter. Delicately fold in a third of the remaining 
whites and when partially blended, sift on one third 
of the flour and continue folding. Alternate rapidly 
with more egg whites and more flour until all egg 


whites and flour are incorporated. 


Turn the batter into the cake pan, pushing the batter 
up to its rim with a rubber spatula. Bake in middle 
level of preheated oven for about 25 minutes. Cake is 
done when it has puffed, and 24 to 3 inches around 
the circumference are set so that a needle plunged into 
that area comes out clean; the center should move 


slightly if the pan is shaken, and a needle comes out 
oily. 


Allow cake to cool in the pan for 10 minutes. Run a 


knife around the edge of the pan, and reverse cake-on 
the rack. Allow it to cool for an hour or two; it must 
be thoroughly cold if it is to be iced. 


CAKES 


TO SERVE 


679 


Use the chocolate-butter icing on page 684, and press a design of almonds 


over the icing. 


LE MARQUIS 


[Chocolate Spongecake | 


For an 8-inch cake serving 6 to 8 people 


A round cake pan 8 inches 
in diameter and 11 inches 
deep 


3% ounces of semisweet 
baking chocolate 

2 Tb strong coffee 

A small covered pan 

A pan of simmering water 

A wooden spoon 

3/2 Tb softened butter 


A wire whip or electric 
beater 

3 egg yolks 

A 3-quart mixing bowl 

14 cup granulated sugar 


3 egg whites 
Pinch of salt 
1 Tb granulated sugar 


A rubber spatula 

1, cup cake flour (scooped 
and leveled, page 17), 
turned into a sifter 


Preheat oven to 350 degrees. 


Butter and flour the cake pan, page 668. Measure out 
the ingredients. 


Place the chocolate and coffee in the small pan, cover, 
and set in the larger pan of simmering water. Remove 
pans from heat and let chocolate melt for 5 minutes 
or so while you proceed with the recipe. Then beat 
in the butter. 


Beat the egg yolks in the mixing bowl, gradually add- 


ing the sugar, until mixture is thick, pale yellow and 
forms the ribbon, page 579. 


Beat the egg whites and salt together in a separate 


bowl until soft peaks are formed; sprinkle on the 
sugar and beat until stiff peaks are formed. (Direc- 
tions are on page 159.) 


Fold the tepid chocolate and butter into the batter, 
then fold in one fourth of the egg whites. When 
partially blended, sift on one fourth of the flour and 
continue folding, alternating rapidly with more egg 
whites and more flour until all egg whites and flour 
are incorporated. 


680 CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 


Immediately turn batter into prepared pan and run it 
up to the rim all around. Bake in middle level of pre- 
heated oven for 25 minutes, or until cake has puffed 
14 inch above rim and top has cracked. A skewer or 
straw should come out clean when plunged 114 inches 
from edge, but should be slightly oily with a few 
specks of chocolate clinging when plunged into the 
middle area. 


A cake rack Let cool 10 minutes; cake will sink slightly. Run a 
knife around inside of pan, and reverse onto a rack. 
Let cool 2 hours before icing. 
To serve 
You may serve the cake with a sprinkling of powdered sugar, fill and 
ice it with one of the following butter creams, or fill with butter cream and 
cover with the chocolate-butter icing on page 684. Illustrated directions for 
filling and icing a cake begin on page 672. 


THREE BUTTER CREAMS 
Trois Crèmes au Beurre 


Butter creams consist of egg yolks, sugar, butter, and flavoring which are 
beaten together into a creamy mass of spreading consistency. There are half 
a dozen ways of arriving at them; one is the orange butter-cream on page 674. 
Here are three more recipes. The first of these is quick and easy but always 
slightly grainy, because the sugar never completely dissolves. The second is 
made with sugar syrup in which egg yolks are poached before the butter is 
beaten in; it makes a fairly firm cream good in hot weather. Custard sauce 
and butter make up the third cream, which is lighter in texture than the other 
two and better in cold weather than in hot. Any of these butter creams may 
be used both as fillings and as icings. 


AMOUNTS NEEDED 
For both filling and icing a cake, you will need approximately the follow- 
ing amounts: 
For an 8-inch cake, 14 cups 
For a 9-inch cake, 2 cups 
For a 10-inch cake, 214 cups 


ICINGS AND FILLINGS 681 


STORAGE AND LEFTOVERS 


Butter creams may be refrigerated for several days, or frozen for several 

weeks. To use again, allow the cream to warm at room temperature until it 

- can be beaten into spreading consistency. If it begins to separate or turn grainy, 
beat in a tablespoon or two of tepid, unsalted, melted butter. 


FILLING AND ICING 


Illustrated directions for filling and icing cakes are in the pair of recipes 
starting on page 672. 


CREME AU BEURRE, MENAGERE 
[Butter Cream I—with powdered sugar | 


This should be made with an electric beater; it is heavy work by hand. 
For about 113 cups 


A 2¥%4-quart mixing bowl Rinse the bowl in hot water, dry it, and place in it all 
2 egg yolks the ingredients listed. Beat at a moderate speed for 
24 cup sifted powdered about 5 minutes to obtain a smooth cream. Chill un- 

sugar til the cream is cold but still malleable, then fill and 


2 Tb kirsch, rum, orange ice your cake. 
liqueur, or strong coffee, 
OR, 1 Tb vanilla extract, 
OR, 2 ounces (2 squares) 
melted, semisweet, baking 
chocolate 
6 ounces (112 sticks) soft- 
ened, unsalted butter 
An electric beater (or a wire 


whip) 
i S 
CREME AU BEURRE, AU SUCRE CUIT 
[Butter Cream I]—with sugar syrup | 


You may use either a wire whip or an electric beater for most of the steps 
in this recipe. We find, however, that a large balloon whip, such as that illus- 


682 


CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 


trated for beating egg whites on page 159, is the quickest and most effective 
instrument for the beating of egg yolks and sugar syrup step. 


For about 2 cups 
Preliminaries 


A wooden spoon or an elec- 
tric beater 

A 214-quart mixing bowl 

1% Ib. (2 sticks) unsalted 
butter 


5 egg yolks, OR, 1 egg and 
3 yolks 

A 2/2-quart mixing bowl 

A large wire whip (or an 
electric beater) 


The sugar syrup 


24 cup granulated sugar 

3 Tb water 

A small, heavy saucepan 

Optional: a candy ther- 
mometer 


Cream the butter until it is light and fluffy. (Direc- 
tions are on page 100.) Set aside. 
` 


Place the egg yolks (or egg and yolks) in the bowl 


and beat a few seconds to blend thoroughly. Set aside. 


Boil the sugar and water in the saucepan, shaking pan 
frequently, until the sugar has reached the soft ball 
stage (236 to 238 degrees on candy thermometer). 


Beating the egg yolks with the syrup 


A pan of not-quite-simmer- 
ing water, large enough to 
hold the bowl 

A basin of cold water 


At once beat the boiling syrup in a stream of droplets 
into the egg yolks, using your wire whip (or electric 
beater). 


Set the mixing bowl in the pan of not-quite-simmer- 


ing water, on the stove, and continue beating the yolk 
and sugar mixture at a moderate speed, lifting in as 
much air as possible. In 4 to 5 minutes the mixture 
will be light, foamy, doubled in bulk, and feel very 
hot to your finger. When this stage is reached, set the 
bowl in cold water and continue beating for several 
minutes until mixture has cooled to tepid, and when 
a bit is lifted, it falls:back forming a slowly dissolving 
ribbon on the surface of the mixture. 


Combining with the butter 


A wooden spatula or spoon, 
or an electric beater 


Then beat the egg mixture by spoonfuls into the bowl 
of creamed butter. Beat in the flavoring. The crème 


ICINGS AND FILLINGS 


2 to 3 Tb kirsch, rum, or- 
ange liqueur, or strong 
coffee, OR, 1 Tb vanilla 
extract, OR, 2 ounces (2 
squares) melted, semi- 
sweet, baking chocolate 

a to 4 Tb softened, unsalted 
butter, if needed 


683 


au beurre should be a smooth, homogeneous, creamy 
mass. If it looks grainy or has a tendency to separate, 
beat in softened butter-by tablespoons. Chill until 
cold but still malleable, then fill and frost your cake. 


0 
: 


CREME AU BEURRE, À L’ANGLAISE 
[Butter Cream I1J—with custard base] 


This final recipe is simpler to make than the preceding one with its sugar 


syrup and its poaching of egg yolks. The custard base here is that most familiar 


of custard sauces, crème anglaise which, when cooled, receives the butter. 


For about 21 cups 


The crème anglaise (custard sauce) 


A wire whip or electric 
beater 

%4 cup granulated sugar 

4 egg yolks 

A 2/4-quart mixing bowl 

14 cup boiling milk 

A r-quart, heavy-bottomed, 
enameled saucepan 

A wooden spoon 

Optional: a candy ther- 
mometer 

A basin of cold water 

A sieve 


Beating in the butter 


A wire whip or electric 
beater 

12 Ib. (2 sticks) softened, un- 
salted butter, more if 
needed 

2 to 3 Tb kirsch, rum, or- 
ange liqueur, or strong 


Following the general procedure in the master recipe 
for créme anglaise on page 588, gradually beat the 
sugar into the egg yolks in the bowl until mixture is 
thick, pale yellow, and forms the ribbon. Then beat 
in the boiling milk by droplets. Pour into saucepan 
and stir with wooden spoon over moderately low 
heat until mixture thickens enough to coat spoon with 
a light cream (165 degrees on candy thermometer). 
At once set saucepan in cold water and beat until cus- 
tard has cooled to barely tepid. Rinse out mixing bowl 
and strain custard back into it. 


Beat the softened butter into the barely tepid custard 
by spoonfuls, using whip or beater. Beat in the fla- 
voring. If cream looks grainy or has a tendency to 
curdle, beat in more softened butter by tablespoons. 
Cream should be smooth, thick, and homogeneous. 
Chill until cold but still malleable, then fill and ice 
your cake. 


684 CHAPTER TEN: DESSERTS AND CAKES 


coffee, OR, 1 Tb vanilla 
extract OR, 2 ounces (2 
squares) melted, semi- 
sweet, baking chocolate 





CHOCOLATE ICING 
Glaçage au Chocolat 


This simple chocolate icing is butter beaten into melted chocolate, and 
forms a tender coating over a white or chocolate cake, or over a thoroughly 


chilled butter-cream icing. 





GLAÇAGE AU CHOCOLAT 
[Chocolate-butter Icing ] 


For an 8-inch cake 


2 eunces (2 squares) semi- Place the chocolate and rum or coffee in the small 


sweet baking chocolate pan, cover, and set in the larger pan of almost sim- 
2 Tb rum or coffee mering water. Remove pans from heat and let choco- 
A small covered pan late melt for 5 minutes or so, until perfectly smooth. 
A larger pan of almost sim- Lift chocolate pan out of the hot water, and beat in 

mering water the butter a tablespoon at a time. Then beat over the 
5 to 6 Tb unsalted butter ice and water until chocolate mixture has cooled to 
A wooden spoon spreading consistency. At once spread it over your 


A bowl with a tray of ice cake with spatula or knife. 
cubes and water to cover 
them 

A small flexible-blade metal 
spatula or a table knife 


A 


ABRICOT, 593 
Glaçage à l’, 670 
AGNEAU ET MOUTON, 
328-50 
Blanquette, 348 
Civet, 347 
Daube, 348 
Fricadelles, 348 
Gigot ou Epaule d’ 
à l’Anglaise, 342 
Braisé aux Haricots, 
338 
en Chevreuil, 341 
Farci, 335 
a la Moutarde, 335 
Rôti, 332 
Moussaka, 349 
Navarin Printanier, 345 
Pilaf à la Catalane, 348 
AHEAD-OF-TIME COOKING: 
Symbol (*) in Recipes 
Aico Bouipo, 46 
ALMOND (S) 
General Information 
to Blanch, 582 
to Caramelize, 583 
Extract of, 582 
to Pulverize, 582 
to Toast, 582 
Weight Equivalents, 
582 
Butter, Orange Flavoring, 
651 
Cake 
with Chocolate Flavor- 
ing, 677 
with Orange Flavor- 
ing, 676 


INDEX 


ALMOND (S) (continued) 
Caramelized see Index: 
Pralin 
Custard Filling, 591 
with Crépes, 652 
with Pear Tart, 642 
with Savarins, 664 
Dessert Creams 
Bavarian, 599 
-Custard, Chocolate 
Flavor, 608 
Malakoffs 
with Chocolate, 607 
with Raspberries, 
607 
with Strawberries, 
605 
Plombiéres (Custard), 
594 
in Soufflé, 617, 618, 622 
Tart, Lemon Flavoring, 
646 
ALUMINUM POTS, PANS, 
etc., 3 
AMUSE-GUEULE AU 
ROQUEFORT, 196 
ANCHOVY (IES ) 
Butter, 1017 
Gratin with Potatoes 
and Onions, 154 
and Spinach, 474 
and Tomatoes, 525 
Quiche with Tomatoes, 
148 
in Salad Niçoise, 542 
Sauce, 66 
for Beef Stew, 324 
Stuffing with Salmon 
(Lamb), 338 
Tart with Onions, 151 


ANGELICA see Glacéed 
Fruit, 17 
ANGLAISE, CREME, 588 
APPETIZERS, 196—206 
General Information 
Bread Rounds and 
Cases, 199—200 
Spreads and Fillings 
for, 201-3 
Tartlet Shells for, 200 
Camembert Biscuits, 198 
Cheese 
Puffs, 181 
Wafers, 197 
Potato Cheese Sticks, 198 
Roquefort Cheese 
Balls, 196 
Biscuits, 197 
Spinach and Cheese Can- 
apés, 472 
Turnovers, 204 
APPLE(S) 
General Information 
Weight Equivalents, 
21 
Aspic of, 627 
Braised with Orange 
Sauce, 628 
Charlotte, 623 
Filling for Crépes, 653 
Flan, 657 
Gratin of, 626 
Stuffing with Sausage 
(Duck), 275 
Tart, 635 
with Custard, 637 
Upside-down, 638 
APPLESAUCE CARAMEL 
MOLD, 624 


ii 


APRICOT(S) 
General Information 
Glaze, 593 
for Cakes, 670 
to Poach, 654 
Preserves of, Strained, 
593 
Bavarian Cream, 600 
Tart, 639; see also Varia- 
tions, 640, 641 
ARROSER (to Baste), 11 
ARROWROOT THICKENING 
for Brown Sauce, 70 
for Orange Sauce 
(Duck), 276 
ARTICHAUTS, 423-8 
Braisés à la Provençale, 
426 
au Naturel, 424 
Printanier, 427 
ARTICHAUTS, FONDS DE, 
428-34 
a Blanc, 430 
au Beurre, 431 
a la Créme, 432 
au Gratin, 433 
a la Grecque, 538 
Mirepoix, 432 


Mornay, 433 
Quartiers de, au Beurre, 
431 


ARTICHOKE(S), 423-8 
General Information, 
423-6 
to Eat, 425 
Preparation of, 423-4 
Sauces for, 426 
to Serve, 425 
Boiled, 424 
Braised, 426-7 
ARTICHOKE HEARTS OR 
BOTTOMS, 428-34 
General Information, 
428-30 
Preparation of, 428— 
30 
Master Recipes 
Preliminary Cooking, 
430 
Frozen, 434 
Buttered 
Quartered, 431 
Whole, 431 
with Carrots and Mush- 
rooms, 478 


ARTICHOKE HEARTS OR 
BOTTOMS (continued ) 
Cold, 577 

a la Grecque, 538 
Creamed, 432 
with Diced Vegetables, 


432 
and Eggs 
Baked see Suggestions, 
E25 as 


Poached, 118; see also 
Other Ideas, 120 
with Filet Steaks, 298-9 
Gratinéed, 433 
Stuffed, au Gratin, 433 
ASPERGES, 434-41 
Nature, 436 
Pointes d’, 438 
Timbale d’, 440 
ASPARAGUS, 434-41 
General Information, 
434-6 
Peeling and Tying of, 
435-6 
Sauces for, 437-8 
Master Recipes 
Boiled, 436 
Frozen, 439 
Cold, 437 
Custard Mold, 440 
Timbales see Variations, 
175 
Tips, 438 
with Eggs see Sugges- 
tions, 133 
ASPICS AND MOLDS 
General Information, 
544-6 
Decorative Elements 
for, 546 
Jellied Stocks for, 
112-14 
to Line a Mold with 
Aspic, 558 
for Patés and Ter- 
rines, 565 
Sauce Chaud-froid for, 
551, 563 
to Unmold an Aspic, 
559 ; 
Apple Aspic, 627 
Aspic de Pommes, 627 
Boeuf Mode en Gelée, 
556 
Braised Beef in Aspic, 
556 


APRICOT(S) — BACON 


ASPICS AND MOLDS 
(continued ) 
Chicken 
Breasts in Chaud- 
froid, 551 
Livers in Aspic, 548 
in Tarragon Aspic, 
549 
Crab 
in Aspic, 549 
in Chaud-froid, 553 
Crabe 
en Aspic, 549 
en Chaud-froid, 553 
Crevettes en Aspic, 549 
Eggs in Aspic, 547 
Foies de Volaille en As- 
pic, 548 
Fowl in Lemon Jelly, 554 
Homard 
en Aspic, 549 
en Chaud-froid, 553 
Lobster 
in Aspic, 549 
in Chaud-froid, 553 
Mousses, 558—64 
Oeufs en Gelée, 547 
Poulet en Gelée a l'Estra- 
gon, 549 
Shrimp in Aspic, 549 
Suprêmes de Volaille en 
Chaud-froid, 551-3 
Volailles en Escabèche, 
554 
AUBERGINES 
Farcies Duxelles, 501 
a la Grecque, 539 


B 


BABAS, 658-61 
General Information, 
658 
Baking of, 660 
Mold for, 660 
Paste for, 658 
Syrup for, 660 
aux Fruits, 661 
au Rhum, 661 
Rum, 66r 
with Berries, 66r 
BACON 
General Information, 15 
Blanching of, 15. 
Weight Equivalents, 
2I 


BAKING DISHES — BEEF 


BAKING DISHES, 5 

BANANA TART see Varia- 
tions, 641 

BARDE DE LARD see Pork 
Fat, 564 


BASTE, TO (Definition of); ° 


Her 
BATTER 
for Dessert Crêpes, 649- 
50 
for Entrée Crépes, 191 
BATTERIE DE CUISINE, 3- 
10 
BAVARIAN CREAMS, 596— 
Gor 
Almond, 599 
Apricot, 600 
Chocolate, 599 
Orange, 596 
with Rice and Fruits, 6o1 
Strawberry or Raspberry, 
600 
BAVAROIS, 596—601 
au Chocolat, 599 
aux Fruits, 600 
à l'Orange, 596 
Praliné, 599 
BAY LEAVES 
French), 18 
BEANS 
Dry White 
General Information 
to Boil, 401 
to Pressure Cook, 
400 
Baked (Cassoulet), 
401 
with Lamb, 338; see 
also Variations, 347 
Green or String, 442-7 
General Information, 
442 
Master Recipes 
Blanching (Pre- 
cooking), 443 
Frozen, 449 
Buttered, 444 
Cold, 443 
in Salad Niçoise, 
542 
Creamed, 445 
Gratinéed with Cheese, 
446 
with Tomatoes, 447 


(American, 


BEANS (continued) 
Wax or Yellow Pod 
Braised, 448 
Frozen, 449 
BÉARNAISE SAUCE, 84; 
‘see also Index: Sauce 
Béarnaise 
BEATING 
« Definition of, 11 
of Egg Whites, 159-60 
of Egg Yolks and Sugar, 


579 = 
of Sugar and Butter, 581 
BEATER see Index: Electric 
Beater 
BECHAMEL SAUCE, 57 
BEEF, 288-328 
General Information, 
288-9 
Cuts for 
Boiling, 307 
Braising, 310 
Filet Steaks, 290—1 
Hamburger, 301 
Steaks, 289-91, 293 
Stews, 314 
Grades of, 288-9 
Marinades for 
Braised Beef, 310 
Filet, 306 
Stews, 322-3 
Vegetables and Wines 
for 
Boiled Beef, 307 
Braised Beef, 310 
Steaks, 291-2 
Boiled Beef, 306 
Bottom Round 
Boiled, 306 
Braised, 310 
in Stews, 315 
Brains, 408-9, 413-16; 
see also Index: Brains 
Braised Beef, 309-14 
General Information, 
309—10 
Master Recipe, 309 
Cold, in Aspic, 556 
Minced, in Beef Shell, 
313 
in Salad, 543 
see also Index: Beef, 
Filet of; Beef, Stews 
Brisket, Boiled, 307 
Casseroles see Index: 
Beef, Stews 


ill 


BEEF (continued) 
Chuck Pot Roast 
Boiled, 307 
à Braised, 310 
in Stews, 314 
Cold 
in Aspic (Boeuf 
Mode), 556 
Casserole, 322, 324 
in Salad, 543 
Eye of Round, Braised, 
310 
Filet of, 303-06; illus., 
290 
General Information, 
290-1 
Braised and Stuffed, 
303 
Sautés of, 325-8 
Filet Steaks (Tourne- 
dos), 296—300; ¢llus., 
291 
General Information, 
296 
Preparation of, 
296-7 
Master Recipe, 297 
with Artichoke Hearts 
and Béarnaise Sauce, 
298 
and Foie Gras, 299 
Fricassees see Index: 
Beef, Stews 
Ground (Hamburgers), 
300-3 
General Information, 
300-1 
Master Recipe, 301 
Sauces and Variations, 
302-3 
Knuckle see Index: Beef, 
Sirloin Tip 
Marrow 
Preparation of, 19 
Sauces with, 294, 295 
Pot Roast (Braised 
Beef), 309 
Rolls of, Stuffed, 318 
Rump Pot Roast 
Boiled, 307 
Braised, 310 
in Stews, 314 
Sautés (Beef Filet), 
325-8 
with Cream and Mush. 
rooms, 325 


iv 


BEEF (continued) 
Sautés (Beef Filet) 


(continued) 
with Red Wine Sauce, 
326 
with Tomatoes and 
Herbs, 327 
Shell of Braised Beef, 
313 


Sirloin Tip or Knuckle 
Boiled, 307 
Braised, 310 
in Stews, 314 

Steaks (Pan-broiled), 


292-6 
General Information, 
289-93 


Amount to Buy, 293 
Preparation of, 293 
Master Recipe, 292 
Pepper Steak, 296 
Sauces and Butters for, 
294-5 
see also Index: Beef, 
Filet Steaks 
Stews, 314-25 
General Information, 
314-15 
Timing of, 315 
with Onions and Beer, 
317 
in Red Wine (Bour- 
guignon), 315 
with Rice and Toma- 
toes, 321 
Stuffed Beef Rolls, 318 
with Vegetables 
(Daubes), 322, 
324 
see also Index: Beef, 
Sautés 
Stock, 107-10 
Stroganoff (Beef Sauté), 
325 
Top Round 
Braised, 310 
in Stews, 314 
BEER IN BEEF AND ONION 
STEW, 317 
BEET AND RICE SALAD, 
543 
BEURRE(S) 
d'Ail, ror 
d’Anchois, 107 
Bercy, 103 
Blanc, 96 


BEURRE(S) (continued) 
au Citron, 98 
Colbert, 102 
Composés, 99-105 
de Crustacés, 104 
pour Escargots, 103. 
d’Estragon, 102 
de Fines Herbes, 102 
Maître d'Hôtel, 102 
Manié, 58, 65: 265 
Marchand de Vins, 103 
Montpellier, 90 
de Moutarde, 100 
Nantais, 96 
Noir (Noisette), 98 
à l'Oeuf, ror 
en Pommade, 100 
BIFTECK, 291, 292—5 
BISCUIT 
au Beurre, 669 
a la Cuiller, 665 
BISCUITS, CHEESE, 196-8 
BITOKES A LA RUSSE, 302 
BLACK BUTTER SAUCE, 98 
BLACKBERRY FLAN, 657 
BLANC, for Artichoke Bot- 
toms, 430 
BLANCH, TO 
General Information, 11 
Bacon, 15 
Brains and Sweetbreads, 
409 
Green Vegetables 
General Information, 
421 
Brussels Sprouts, 450 
Green Beans, 443 
Spinach, 468 
Turnips, 486 
BLANCHIR (to Blanch), 11 
BLANQUETTE 
d’Agneau, 348 
de Veau, 362 
BLEND, TO (Definition of ), 
TTI 
BLENDER see Index: Elec- 
tric Blender 
BLUEBERRY (IBS) 4 
Flan, 657 z 
and Rum Babas, 661 
BOEUF, 288-228 
Ballotines de, 318 
Bifteck Haché, 300-3 
Bitoks à la Russe, 302 
à la Lyonnaise, 301 


BEEF — BOUILLON 


BOEUF (continued ) 
Bifteck Sauté, 292-6 
Béarnaise, 295 
Bercy, 294 
au Beurre, 292 
a la Bordelaise, 295 
Marchand de Vins, 
295 
Steak au Poivre, 296 
Bouilli 
Pot au Feu, 306 
Potée Normande, 306 
Bourguignon, 315 
Braisé, 309-14 
a la Cuillère, 313 
Carbonnades à la Fla- 
mande, 317 
à la Catalane, 321 
Daube de, 322 
à la Provençale, 324 
Estouffade de, 322 
Filet de, Prince Albert, 
303 
à la Mode, 309 
en Gelée, 556 
Paupiettes de, 318 
Ragoûts de, 314-25 
Roulades de, 318 
Salade de, à la Parisienne, 
543 
Sauté de, 325-8 
a la Bourguignonne, 
326 
à la Parisienne, 325 
à la Provençale, 327 
Terrine de, 322 
Tournedos de, 296-300 
aux Champignons, 297 
Chasseur, 297 
Henri IV, 298 
Rossini, 299 
BOIL, TO (Definition of), 
HT 
BONING OF 
Chicken Breasts, 267 
Duck or Fowl, 570 
Leg of Lamb, 329 
BOUCHÉES PARMENTIER 
AU FROMAGE, 198 
BOUILLABAISSE, 52 
Fish for, 50 
BOUILLI (for Soufflés), 
614, 619 
BOUILLIR (to Boil), 11 
BOUILLON see Index: 
Stocks 


BOUQUET GARNI — CAKE FILLINGS AND FROSTINGS Vv 


BOUQUET GARNI, 18 
BRAINS (Calf, Lamb, etc.), 
408-9, 413-16 
General Information, 
408-9, 413 
Blanching of, 409 


Soaking and Peeling, 


408 
Braised, 415 
Cold, 577 
Gratin of, 157 
in Red Wine, 415 
Sautéed 

Brown Butter Sauce, 
413 

Other Sauces for, 415 

Soufflé, 173; see also 

Variations, 167 

BRAISE, TO (Definition 
of), 11 
BRAISER (to Braise), 11 
BRANDY 
for Cooking, 32 
Sauce for Pepper Steak, 
296 
BREAD 
Cases, Preparation of, 
200 
Crumb (s) 

Electric Blender for 
Making of see 
Chicken, 266 

and Mustard Coating 
for 
Chicken, 265 
Hot-house Lamb, 

328 
Liver, 407 
Weight Equivalents, 
21 
Hard-toasted (Croûtes), 
44 
Rounds (Canapés), 199 
BREASTS OF CHICKEN see 
Index: Chicken, Breasts 
BRITISH 
Measures, 20—1 
Oven Temperatures, 25 
BROCCOLI, 455—6 
BROWN 
Butter Sauce, 98; see also 
Index: Sauce, Butter 
Sauce, 66—71; see also 
Index: Sauce, Brown 
Stock, r10 


BRUSSELS SPROUTS, 449- 
55 i 
General Information, 
449-50 
Master Recipes 
' , Blanching of (Pre- 
cooking), 450 
Frozen, 454 
. Braised 
in Butter, 451 
with Chestnuts, 452 
Browned with Cheese, 


453 | 

Chopped, with Cream, 
453 

Creamed, 452 

Custard Mold, 454 

Gratinéed with Cheese 
Sauce, 453 

BUTTER 

General Information 

American and French, 


15 
_ Clarified, 15 
Creaming of, 100 
Heating of (Foam), 


16 
for Sauce Enrichments, 
58 
and Sugar (Creaming 
of), 581 
Unsalted or Sweet, 15 
Weights and Measures, 
22 
Creams (Cake Filling), 
680-4 
and Flour 


Paste (Sauce Thick- 
ener), 58, 64, 265 
Roux (Sauce Thick- 
ener ) 
for Brown Sauces, 
68 
for White Sauces, 
56 
Sauces see Index: 
Sauce, Butter 
BUTTER(S) (Cold Fla- 
vored), 99—105 
General Information, 
99-100 
Anchovy, 101 
Egg Yolk, ror 
Garlic, 1017 
and Herbs (Snail But- 
ter), 103 


BUTTER(S) (Cold Fla- 
vored) (continued ) 
on Broiled Mush- 
rooms, 512 
on Mussels, 228 
for Hamburgers, 302 
Herb (Tarragon, etc.), 
102 
on Shirred Eggs, 123 
for Liver, 406 
Mustard, 100 
Orange (for Crêpes), 
650 
and Almond, 651 
Shallot 
and Red Wine, 103 
and White Wine, 103 
Shellfish, 104 
for Steaks, 294 


CABBAGE 
with Roast Pork, 383 
Soup, 48 
Weight Equivalents, 22 
CABBAGE, RED 
Master Recipe (Braised), 
496 
with Chestnuts, 496 
with Duck, 280 
with Pork, 384 
Chops see Varia- 
tions, 389 
CABINET PUDDING, 612 
CAKE FILLINGS AND 
FROSTINGS 
General Information, 
680-1 
Amounts Needed, 
680 
Illustrated Directions, 
672-5 
Storage and Leftovers, 
681 
Apricot Glaze, 593 
to Use, 670 
Butter Creams (Choco- 
late, Kirsch, Rum, 
etc.), 680-4 
Chocolate Icing, 684 


. 


vi 


CAKE FILLINGS AND 
FROSTINGS (continued) 
Lemon 

Butter-cream Icing, 
676 
Butter Filling, 676 
Orange 
Butter-cream Icing, 
674 
Butter Filling, 672 

CAKE PAN for Tart Shells, 
143 

CAKE (S), 667—80 
General Information, 

667-9 

Pans, Preparation of, 

668 

Storage of, 669 

Unmolding of, 668 
Butter Spongecake, 669 
Chocolate 

and Almond Cake, 


677 
Spongecake, 679 
Orange 
and Almond Sponge- 
cake, 676 
Spongecake, 671 
CALF'S 


Brains, 408-9, 413-16; 
see also Index: Brains 
Feet for Jellied Stocks, 
113 
Liver, 405-7 
CAMEMBERT see Index: 
Cheese 
CANAPÉS 
Liver, for Roast Birds, 
247 
Preparation of, 199 
Spinach and Cheese, 472 
CANARD ET CANETON, 
272-281 
a la Badoise, 280 
Braisé 
avec Choucroute, 280 
aux Choux Rouges, 
280 
aux Marrons, 281 
aux Cerises, 278 
en Croûte, 571 
Montmorency, 278 
à l'Orange, 276 
aux Pêches, 279 
Poélé aux Navets, 279 


CANARD ET CANETON 
(continued ) 
Roti, 274 
à l’Alsacienne, 275 
CANDIED FRUITS, 17 
CANETON see Index: Ca- 
nard 
CANNED GOODS see Index: 
Peas, Canned; Stock, 
Canned; etc. °° > 
CAPER SAUCE, 65; see also 
Brown Butter Sauce, 98 
CAPON, CAPONETTE (de- 
scribed), 235 
Casserole Roasted, 249 
CARAMEL, 583 
Almond Cream (Plom- 
biéres), 594 
Coloring for Orange 
Sauce, 277 
Custards, 610—11 
to Line a Mold with, 584 
Syrup, 584 
CARAMELIZED ALMONDS, 
583 
CARBONNADES A LA 
FLAMANDE, 317 
CAROTTES, 476—80 
a la Concierge, 480 
a la Créme, 478 
Etuvées au Beurre, 477 
aux Fines Herbes, 477 
a la Forestiére, 478 
Glacées, 479 
Vichy, 479 
CARROTS, 476-80 
General Information, 


476-7 
Cutting and Slicing, 
28-9 
Weight Equivalents, 
22 
Master Recipe (Braised), 
477 
with Artichoke Hearts, 
478 
Creamed, 478 
with Onions and Gar- 
lic, 480 


? 


Glazed, 479 
with Herbs, 477 
Vichy, 479 
CASSEROLE DISHES, Sug- 
gestions for 
Braised 
Beef, 309 


CAKE FILLINGS AND FROSTINGS — CÉLERI-RAVE 


CASSEROLE DISHES, Sug- 
gestions for (continued ) 
Braised (continued) 

Lamb, 338 
Red Cabbage, 496 
Sauerkraut, 498 
Cassoulet, 399 
Chicken Fricassees, 258— 
65 
Eggplant 
and Lamb Mold, 349 
and Tomato Casserole, 
503 
Gratins, 153-7 
Potato and Spinach, 
474 
Pipérade, 137 
Quiches, 146-53 
Scalloped Potatoes, 523— 


Stews 
Beef, 314-25 
Lamb, 344-8 
Pork, 389 
Veal, 359-64 
Sweetbreads au Gratin, 
157 
Turnip and Bacon Cas- 
serole, 488 


Veal Gratinéed, 355 
CASSEROLE ROASTING see 
Index: Chicken; Veal etc. 
CASSEROLES see Pots and 
Pans, 3 
CASSOULET, 399 
CAULIFLOWER, 456-61 
General Information, 
456-7 
Molding of (Re-form- 
ing), 458 
Preparation of, 456 
Sauces for, 458 
Master Recipe (Blanch- 
ing: Precooking), 457 
Custard Mold, 461 
au Gratin with Cheese, 
459 
and Tomatoes, 459 
Purée with Watercress, 
460 
CÉLERI 
Braisé, 491 
à la Grecque, 538 
CÉLERI-RAVE 
Braisé, 492 
Rémoulade, 540 


CELERIAC — CHICKEN 


CELERIAC see Index: Celery 
Root 
CELERY 
General Information 
(Weight Equiva- 
lents), 22 
Braised, 491 
Cold, 578 
à la Grecque, 538 
Root 
Braised, 492 
Cold, Mustard Sauce, 
540 
CENTIGRADE-FAHRENHEIT 
CONVERSIONS, 24-5 
CERVELLES, 408-9, 413— 
16 
au Beurre Noir, 413 
Braisées, 415 
en Matelote, 415 
CHAFING DISH FOR 
Crépes Suzette, 650 
Kidneys, 417, 418 
CHAMPAGNES, Types to 
Serve, 34 
CHAMPIGNONS, 508-17 
à Blanc, 511 
Duxelles, 515 
Farcis, 516 
Fumet de, 512 
a la Grecque, 537 
Grillés, 512 
Sautés, 513-15 
au Beurre, 513 
à la Bordelaise, 513 
à la Crème, 514 
Sauce Madère, 515 
CHANTILLY (Whipped 
Cream), 580 
CHARLOTTE MOLD, illus., 
162 
CHARLOTTE (S) 
Basque, 608 
Chantilly 
aux Fraises, 608 
aux Framboises, 608 
Malakoff 
au Chocolat, 607 
aux Fraises, 605 
aux Framboises, 607 
aux Pommes, 623 
CHATEAUBRIAND, 291 
CHAUD-FROID see Index: 
Sauce Chaud-froid 
CHAUSSONS AU ROQUE- 
FORT, 204 


CHEESE 
General Information, 16 
Graters for, 9 
Weight Equivalents, 
22 
' Biscuits or Wafers, 
196-8 
Camembert 
z Biscuits, 198 
Quiche, 148 
Cream Cheese 
and Mushroom Filling 
(Crêpes), 194 
Tart for Dessert, 647, 
648 
Fillings 
for Appetizers, 201—2 
for Crêpes, 194 
Parmesan Coating for 
Chicken Breasts, 271 
Puffs, 181 
Quiches, 147-8 
Roquefort 
Biscuits, 197 
` Cheese Balls, 196 
Quiche, 148 
Turnovers, 204 
Sauce 
Mornay, 41 
with Wine and Gar- 
lic, 118 
Soufflé 
Classic, 163 
Egg Whites (no 


Yolks), 173 
Unmolded, 171 
Sticks, 198 


Swiss (Gruyère, etc.) 
Filling for Appetizers, 
201 
Quiche, 147 
Sauce, 61 
Soufflé, 163, 171, 173 
Wafers, 197 
CHERRIES 
with Duck, 278 
Poached in Wine, 643 
CHERRY 
Filling for Savarins, 664 
Flans, 655, 656, 658 
Tart, Flambée, 643 
CHESTNUT(S), 517-20 
General Information, 
517-18 
Amount to buy, 518 
Peeling of, 518 


oe 


Vil 


CHESTNUT (S) (continued) 
General Information 
(continued ) 
Serving Suggestions, 
518 
Braised, 519 
with Brussels Sprouts, 


452 
with Red Cabbage, 
496 
Purée of, 518 
and Sausage Stuffing 
(Goose), 286 
CHICKEN, 234-87 
General Information, 
234-40 
to Bone 
Chicken Breasts, 
267 
Whole Chicken, 
570 
Defrosting of, 235 
Disjointing of, 254 
Preparation of, 236 
Stock 
Brown, 236 
White, 237 
Stuffings for 
Herb and Giblet, 
243 
Mushroom, 251 
Timetable for Roast- 
ing, 239-40 
to Truss, 237-9 
Types of (American 
and French), 234 
Vegetables and Wines 
for, 240-1 
Boiled in Pot au Feu, 
306 
Breast of Chicken, 
267-71 
General Information, 
267 
Preparation of, 267 
Cold in Chaud-froid, 
551-3 
Poached in Butter, 
268-70 
with Cream Sauce, 
268 
with Diced Vegeta- 
bles, 269 
‘with Mushrooms, 
269 
with Paprika, 268 


so 


Vill 


CHICKEN (continued ) 
Breast of Chicken (con- 
tinued ) 
Sautéed in Butter, 
270-1 
Cheese Coating for, 
271 
Sauces for 
Brown Butter, 
270 
Deglazing, 271 
Truffle, 271 
Broiled with Mustard, 
265 
Casserole Roast, 249-53 
with Tarragon, 249 
with Vegetables, 252 
Cold 
in Lemon Jelly, 554 
List of, 576 
in Tarragon Aspic, 
549 
Coq au Vin, 263 
Filling for Appetizers, 
203 
Fricassees, 258-65 
General Information, 
258 
Chicken Types, 258 
Timing, 258 
Master Recipe (Wine 
Sauce), 258 
with Curry, 261 
Fondue with Cream, 
262 
with Paprika, 262 
in Red Wine, 263 
with Tarragon, 262 
Leftover 
in Cream Filling, 203 
Gratin of, 157 
Liver see Index: Liver, 
Chicken 
Mousse of, 560 
Quenelles of, 189 
Roast, 240-9 
Master Recipes 
Oven Roasting, 240 
Spit Roasting, 242 
Basted with Cream, 
243 
with Port Wine and 
Mushrooms, 245 
with Stuffings, 243, 
251 


CHICKEN — CONCOMBRES 


CHICKEN (continued) 
Sautéed, 254-8 
General Information, 
254 
Master Recipe, 254 
Sauces for gp a> 
Cream, 256 
Deglazing, 255 
Herbal Garlic, 257 
Tomato and Mush- 
room, 256 
Soufflé see Variations, 
OP, 173 
Squab Chicken 
(Roasted), 246 
Stew see Fricassees, 
258-65 
Pot au Feu, 306 
Tarragon 
in Aspic, 549 
Casserole Roast, 249 
Fricassee, 262 
Timbales see Variations, 
17:5 
CHOCOLATE 
General Information 
Drops, 582 
to Melt, 582 
Cake, 679 
with Almonds, 677 
Filling ( Butter- 
cream) 680—4 
Icing, 684 
Creams (Desserts) 
Bavarian (Custard), 


599 
Custard with Almonds, 
608 
Malakoff (with Al- 
monds), 607 
Plombières (Custard), 
595 
Mousse, 604 
Soufflé, 619 
CHOPPING, #llus., 27 
CHOU ROUGE A LA LIMOU- 
SINE, 496 
CHOUCROUTE BRAISEE, 
498 
Garnie, 499 
CHOU-FLEUR, 456-61 
Blanchi, 457 
a la Mornay, 459 
Timbale de, 461 


CHOU-FLEUR (continued) 
aux Tomates, 459 
en Verdure, 460 
CHOUX 
Asperges (Broccoli), 
455-6 
de Bruxelles, 449-55 
Blanchis, 450 
a la Créme, 453 
Etuvés 
au Beurre, 451 
à la Crème, 452 
aux Marrons, 452 
à la Milanaise, 453 
à la Mornay, 453 
Timbale de, 454 
CHOUX (Puff Shells), 
177-81 
CIVET DE MOUTON, 347 
CLAFOUTI(S), 655-8 
a la Bourdaloue, 658 
a la Liqueur, 656 
aux Mires, 657 
aux Myrtilles, 657 
aux Poires, 656, 658 
aux Pommes, 657 
aux Pruneaux, 657 
CLAM 
Filling for Appetizers, 
202 
Juice for Fish Soups, 51 
Juice for Fish Stock, 115 
CLARIFIED BUTTER, I5 
CLARIFICATION OF MEAT 
STOCKS, III 
COAT A SPOON (Definition 
of), 11 
COCK, 235 
COCKTAIL APPETIZERS see 
Index: Appetizers 
COFFEE 
Icing (Butter Creams), 
680-4 
Soufflé, 617-18 
COGNAC, for Cooking, 32 
COLD 
Buffet, 536-78 
Dishes, List of, 576-8 
COLIN see Index: Fish, Cod 
COMPOTE OF PEACHES, 
630 
CONCOMBRES, 499-501 
au Beurre, 499 
aux Champignons, à, la 
Crème, 501 
à la Crème, 500 


CONCOMBRES — CUP-DECILITER EQUIVALENTS 


CONCOMBRES (continued) 
à la Grecque, 538 
à la Mornay, sor 
Persillés, 500 
CONFIT D'OIE see Index: 
Goose, Preserved ' 
CONGRE see Index: Fish, 
Eel 
CONSOMME 
Clarification of Stock for, 
111; see also Index: 
Stock, Canned 
CONTRE FILET, 290 
CONVERSION FORMULAS 
see Index: Tables of 
Equivalents 
COOKIES, SUGAR, 635 
COOKING AHEAD OF TIME: 
Symbol (*) in Recipes 
COPPER POTS, 4 
COQ AU VIN, 263 
COQUELETS SUR CANAPES, 
246 
COQUILLES ST. JACQUES 
a la Parisienne, 216 
a la Provengale, 218 
CORNISH GAME HEN, 
246, 554 
CORNSTARCH THICKENING 
FOR BROWN SAUCE, 70 
COURT BOUILLON FOR 
VEGETABLES, 536 
COVERED ROASTING see 
Index: Veal, Casserole 
Roast; Chicken, Casse- 
role Roast; etc. 
CRAB 
in Aspic, 549 
in Chaud-froid, 553 
Quenelles, 189 
Quiche, 149 
Soufflé, 170; see also 
Variations, 167 
Timbales see Variations, 
175 
CRABE 
en Aspic, 549 
en Chaud-froid, 553 
CRACKLINGS, GOOSE, 282 
CRAWFISH, CRAYFISH see 
Index: Ecrevisse 
CREAM 
General Information, 
16-17 
Cheese, 16 


CREAM (continued) 
Enrichment (White 
Sauces), 59 
Fillings see Index: Fill- 
ings, Cream 
' French 
Discussion of, 16 
Duplication of, 16. 
a to Whip, 580 
‘Lightly Beaten, 580 
Puff Paste, 175 
Sauce, 59; see also Index: 
Sauce, Cream 
Sour 
Discussion of, 16 
to Make, 16 
to Whip, 580 
CREAMING BUTTER, 100 
CREAMS (Dessert) 
Bavarian Creams, 596— 
Gor 
Custards, 610-13; see 
also Index: Custards 
Malakoffs, 605-8 
Mousses, 603—5 
Plombiéres, 594-6 
CREME, 16-17 
Anglaise, 588 
for Cake Fillings, 683 
au Beurre, 680—4 
à l’Anglaise, 683 
au Citron, 676 
Ménagére, 681 
à l’Orange, 674 
au Sucre Cuit, 681 
Brilée, 589 
Chantilly, 580 
au Citron, 676 
Fraiche, 16 
Pâtissière, 590 
with Fruit Tarts, 
640-1 
Plombiéres, 594-6 
à l’Ananas, 596 
au Chocolat, 595 
aux Fruits, 595 
Pralinée, 594 
Renversée au Caramel, 
610 
Saint-Honoré, 591 
Sainte-Anne au Caramel, 
611 
CREMES 
Frites, 203 
et Mousses, 594-613 


ix 


CRÊPES (Dessert), 648-55 
General Information 
Batters for, 649-50 
Cooking of, 648 
Fillings for, 654 
with Almond 
Butter, 651 
Cream, 652 
Fines Sucrées, 649 
Fourrées 
et Flambées, 651 
Frangipane, 652 
Gâteau de, à la Nor- 
mande, 653 
à la Levure, 649 
Mound of, with Apples, 
653 
with Orange Butter, 650 
and Almonds, 651 
Soufflées, 650 
Sucrées, 648-55 
Suzette, 650 
CRÊPES (Entrée), 190-5 
General Information 
Batter for, 191 
Cooking of, 191 
Pans for, 192 
d'Epinards, 474 
Farcies et Roulées, 195 
Gâteau de, 193 
Mound of, 193 
of Spinach, 474 
over Spinach, 473 
Stuffed and Rolled, 195 
Timbale de, 195 
CREVETTES EN ASPIC, 549 
CROMESQUIS, 203 
CROQUETTES, 203 
CROÛTES 
Bread Cases, 200 
for Soup, 44 
CROÛTONS, 199 
CRUSTACÉES, MOUSSELINE 
DE, 564 
CUCUMBERS, 499-501 
General Information, 
499 
Baked, 499 
with Cheese Sauce, 501 
Cold à la Grecque, 538 
Creamed, 500 
with Mushrooms, 501 
Parslied, 500 
CUP CUSTARDS, 611 
CUP-DECILITER EQUIVA- 
LENTS, 21 


x 


CURRANT GLAZE, 594 
CURRIED CHICKEN, 261 
CURRY SAUCE, 63, 73; see 
also Index: Sauce, Curry 
CUSTARD (S) 
Desserts 
Almond with Choco- 
late, 608 
Applesauce Caramel 
Mold, 624 
Bavarian Creams, 
596—601 
Caramel 
and Almond Plom- 
bières, 594 
Unmolded Custard, 
610-11 
Chocolate Plombières, 
595 
Fillings for Desserts 
Almond Cream, 
591 
Crème Pâtissière, 
590 
with Egg Whites, 
591 
for Savarins, 664 
with Glacéed Fruit, 
612 
Pineapple 
Mold, 631 
Plombiéres, 596 
Raspberry Plombières, 
D99 
Strawberry Plombières, 
595 
Tart 
with Apples, 637 
Fillings for, 590-2 
with Pears, 642 
Entrée Molds 
Asparagus, 440 
Brussels Sprouts, 454 
Cauliflower, 461 
Spinach, 474 
Timbales, 174-5 
Sauce, Creme Anglaise, 
588 
CUTS, MEAT 
see Index: Beef Cuts; 
Veal Cuts; etc. 
Booklet on, 288 
French see Text Listings 
under Beef Stews; 
Veal Scallops; etc. 


CURRANT GLAZE — DOVE, ROAST 


CUTTING METHODS 
Vegetables, 26-30 
Mushrooms, 509—II 


D 


DAUBE 
de Boeuf, 322, 324 
de Mouton, 348 ` 
DECILITER-CUP EQUIVA- 
LENTS, 21 
DEFINITIONS, LIST OF, 
II—14 
DÉGLACER (to Deglaze), 
EI 
DEGLAZE, TO (Definition 
CH) TI 
DEGLAZING SAUCE see In- 
dex: Sauce, Brown 
Deglazing 
DÉGRAISSER (to 
Degrease), 12 
DEGREASE, TO (Directions 
Oe), r2 
DEMI-GLACE SAUCE, 66 
DÉs, COUPER EN (to 
Dice), 13 
DESSERT(S), 579-665 
Cold 
Apple(s) 
Aspic, 627 
Braised, 628 
Charlotte, 623 
Gratin, 626 
Applesauce Caramel 
Mold, 624 
Bavarian Creams, 596— 
Got 
Caramel 
and Almond Soufflé, 
622 
Custards, 610—11 
Charlotte (s) 
Basque, 608 
Chantilly, 608 
Malakoff, 605-8 
Mousses, 603-5 > 
Oranges, Glazed, 629 
Peach Compote, 630 
Pears, Baked, 630 
Pineapple Custard 
Mold, 631 
Plombières, 594—6 


DESSERT (S) (continued) 
Cold (continued) 
Rum-macaroon 
Soufflé, 620 
Tarts, 635—48 
Custards see Index: Cus- 
tard Desserts 
Fillings for, 590—2 
Hot 
Apple(s) 
Braised, 628 
Charlotte, 623 
Applesauce Caramel 
Mold, 624 
Caramel Custards, 
610-11 
Pears, Baked, 630 
Soufflés, 613-20 
Tarts, 635-48 
Molded 
General Information 
Lining a Mold 
with Caramel, 
584 
with Ladyfingers, 
585 
Unmolding of, 586 
_ Apple 
Aspic, 627 
Charlotte, 623 
Applesauce Caramel, 
624 
Bavarian Creams, 
596—601 
Caramel-almond 
Soufflé, 622 
Charlottes Malakoff, 
etc., 605—9 
Custards, 610-13 
Mousses, 603—5 
Pineapple Mold, 631 
Rum-macaroon Souf- 
flé, 620 
Sauces, 588, 592; see also 
Index: Sauces, Sweet 
Tarts, 632-48 
Unmolding of, 586 
Dice, How To CUT INTO, 
13 
DILL SAUCE, 95 
DIPLOMATE, 612 
DOUGH 
for Babas, 658 
see also Index: Pastry 
Dough 
DOVE, ROAST, 246 


DRESSING FOR SALADS — ENAMEL WARE 


DRESSING FOR SALADS 
Mayonnaise, 86-94 
Vinaigrette, 94-6 

Duck, DUCKLING, 272-81 
General Information, 

272-3 
Boning of, 570 
Carving of, 272 
Description of, 272 
Preparation for cook- 
ing, 272 
Stock, 272 
Timetable for Roast- 
ing, 273 
Wine and Vegetables 
for, 273 
Baked 
with Beans in Cas- 
soulet, 404 
in Pastry Crust, 571 
Braised 
with Chestnuts, 281 
with Sauerkraut or 
Cabbage, 280 
Casserole Roast with 
Turnips, 279 
Cold, with Orange, 576 
Mousse of, 560 
Paté of, 568 
in Pastry Crust, 571 
Roast, 274-9 
Master Recipe, 274 
with Apple Stuffing, 
275 
with Cherries, 278 
with Orange Sauce, 
276 
with Peaches, 279 
Spit Roasted, 275 

DUMPLINGS see Index: 
Quenelles; Gnocchi 

DUXELLES, 515 


E 


ECHALOTES, 19 
ECREVISSE(S), 213 
Butter see Shellfish 
Butter, 104 
Garnish for Fish Filets, 
215-16 
EEL (Conger or Sea), 50, 
185 


EGG(s), 116-38 
General Information 

to Beat Eggs and 
Sugar, 579 

Weight Equivalents, 

22 
in Aspic, 547 
Baked in Ramekins, 
epee i 
‘.Boiled, 6-minute, 118 
Dishes see also Index: 
Custards; Gratins; 
Quiches; Soufflés 
Omelettes see Index: 
Omelettes 
Poached, 116—22 

General Information 

Discussion of, 116- 
EZ 
Substitute for, 118 

Master Recipe, 116 

in Aspic, 547 

on Canapés, Cheese 
Sauce, 118 

- in Cheese Soufflé, 165 
in Fish Soup see Vari- 
ation, 51 

in Garlic Soup, 47 

in Pastry Shells, Béar- 
naise, 120 

in Red Wine, 121 

Scrambled, 125-6 

Master Recipe, 125 

Cold with Tomatoes, 
576 

Garnishings for, 126 

Shirred, 122-3 
Whites 

Beating of 
Master Recipe, 159 
for Desserts and 

Cakes, 579 

in Custard Filling, 591 

to fold into Soufflés, 
etc., 160-1 

Soufflés (no Egg 
Yolks) 

Cheese, 173 
Dessert Soufflés, 
622 
Yolk(s) 

Added to Hot Sauces, 
Go; see also Index: 
Sauce Parisienne 

Butter, for Decora- 
tions, IOI 





xi 


EGG(S) (continued ) 
Yolk(s) (continued) 
for Butter Creams, 
680-4 
for Custard Sauce, 
588 
for Hollandaise Sauce, 
79 
for Mayonnaise, 86-7 
and Sugar, Beating of 
to Form the Rib- 
bon, 579 
Heated see Char- 
lotte, 609 
EGGPLANT, 501-5 


Casserole, 503 
Cold, 577 
a la Grecque, 539 
Mold, with Lamb 
(Moussaka), 349 
Stuffed, 501 
ELECTRIC BEATER OR 
MIXER, illus., 10 
for Beating Butter and 
Sugar, 581 
for Cake Batters, 669-79 
for Cake Frostings, 
681-3 
for Creaming Butter, 100 
for Egg Whites, 160 
for Eggs and Sugar, 579 
for Quenelles, 185 
ELECTRIC BLENDER 
for Bread Crumbs see 
Broiled Chicken, 266 
for Hollandaise Sauce, 81 
for Mayonnaise, 88 
for Mousses (Chicken 
Liver, etc.), 559 
for Pancakes, 191, 649 
for Almonds, 582 
for Shellfish Butter, 104 
for Soups, 37 
ELECTRIC FOOD PROCESSOR 
illus., 9 
for mayonnaise, 86 
for orange butter, 650 
for pie crusts, 140, 634 
for quenelles, 184—6 
ELECTRIC SKILLET 
for Chicken Fricassee, 259 
for Sautéed Chicken, 254 
EMMENTHAL see Cheese, 16 
ENAMEL WARE see Pots, 
3—6 


xii 


ENDIVES, 493-5 
Braised, 493 
Cold à la Grecque, 539 
à la Flamande, 493 
Gratin with Ham, 156 
Gratinéed with Cheese, 
494 
Quiche, 152 
ENGLISH see Index: British 
ENTRECÔTE, 290 
ENTRÉES AND LUNCHEON 
DISHES, 139-206 
ENTREMETS, 579-665 
aux Fruits, 623-232 
EPINARDS, 467-76 
à la Basquaise, 474 
Blanchis, 468 
Canapés aux, 472 
à la Crème, 471 
Etuvés au Beurre, 470 
Gratinés au Fromage, 
471 
au Jambon, 470 
au Jus, 470 
a la Mornay, Gratinés, 
472 
Petites Crépes d’, 474 
Purée d’, 469 
en Surprise, 473 
Timbale d’, 474 
EQUIPMENT, KITCHEN, 
3-10 
EQUIVALENTS see Index: 
Tables of Equivalents 
ESCABECHE, 554 
ESCALOPES DE VEAU, 
364-9 
ESPAGNOLE SAUCE, 66 
ESTOUFFADE DE BOEUF, 
322 
ETUVER (to Braise), 11 


F 


FAHRENHEIT-CENTIGRADE 
Conversions, 24—5 
FARCE 
Duxelles, 251, 337 
aux Herbes, 336 
Mentonnaise, 338 
aux Olives, 338 
pour Pâtés, 565 
de Porc, 336 
aux Rognons, 337 


FARINA see Semolina 
Gnocchi, 183 

FARINE (Flour), 17 

FAT 
Fatback see Pork Fat, 564 
Goose, 282 + 
Pork Fat for Pâtés, 564 
Removal of see Degrease, 

12 

FAUX FILET, 290 ` ` 

FENNEL, COLD À LA 
GRECQUE, 539 


N 


FENOUIL À LA GRECQUE, 
539 
FILET 
of Beef see Index: Beef, 
Filet 
de Boeuf see 
Boeuf, Filet 
of Fish see Index: Fish, 
Filets 
Mignon, 290, 296 
de Poisson see Index: 
Poisson, Filet 
Steaks, 290, 296—300 
FILLINGS 
for Cake see Index: Cake 
Fillings 
Cream Fillings (Entrée) 
Cheese, 201—2 
for Crêpes, 193-5 
for Croquettes, 203 
Ham, etc., see Varia- 
tions, 202 
Poultry, 203 
Shellfish, 202 
for Desserts 
for Crêpes, 650—4 
Custard 
with Almonds, 591 
Crème Patissière, 
590 
with Egg Whites, 
SOI 
for Savarins, 664 
see also Index: Stuffings 
FINES HERBES see Herbs, 
18 
FISH, 207-33 ? 
General Information, 
207 
Buying Notes, 207 
Sauces for, 232-3 
Serving Suggestions, 
208 


Index: 


ENDIVES — FISH 


FISH (continued ) 
General Information 
(continued ) 
Types of 
for Bouillabaisse 
and Soup, 50 
for Filleting and 
Poaching, 208 
for Quenelles, 185 
Blue Fish see Fish Filets, 
208 
Brill see Fish Filets, 208 
Coalfish Baked with To- 
matoes see Other Fish, 
220 
Cod 
Baked with Tomatoes 
see Other Fish, 220 
for Quenelles see Fish, 
185 
Dab see Fish Filets, 208 
Eel, Conger or Sea Eel, 
50, 185 
Filets Poached in White 
Wine, 208-16 
Master Recipe, 208 
Sauces and Garnitures 
Cream and Egg 
Yolk Sauce, 211 
Ecrevisses, 216 
Mushrooms, 210, 


216 
Mussels and 
Shrimp, 214 
Vegetable Julienne, 
2T 
Soufflés with, 167; 
168-71 


Stuffed Filets, 216 
Flounder Filets 
Poached in Wine, 
208-16 
for Quenelles, 185 
in Soufflé, 167; 168- 


ie 
Fluke see Fish Filets, 208 
Forcement see Quenelles, 
184 
Gratin, 156 
Hake 
see Fish Filets, 208 
Quenelles, 185 
Halibut 
Baked with Tomatoes 
see Other Fish, 220 
Quenelles, 185 


FISH — FUMET 


FISH (continued) 
Leftover, Gratin of, 156 
Mousse 

Cold, 562 
Hot, 187 


Poached Filets, 208-16. 


Pollack 
Baked with Tomatoes 
see Other Fish, 220 
Poached see Fish Fi- 


lets, 208 
Quenelles, 184-9 
Salmon 


Gratin, 156 
Mousse, 562 
Quenelles, 189 
Soufflé, 166 
Stuffing for Lamb, 338 
Timbales see Varia- 
tions, 175 
Sole Filets Poached in 
White Wine, 208-16 
Soufflé 
with Egg Whites (no 
Yolks), 173 
with Fish Filets, 168 
and Shellfish, 170 
on a Platter, 170 
Sauces for, 83, 84, 
169 
Soup and Bouillabaisse, 
49-53 
Stock, 114, 115 
Trout see Fish Filets, 208 
Tuna 
Baked with Tomatoes, 
219 
in Salade Niçoise, 542 
and Veal Patties, 375 
Whiting see Fish Filets, 


208 
see also Index: Crab; 
Ecrevisse; Lobster; 


Mussels; Scallops; 
Shellfish; Shrimp 
FLAMBEES 
for Dessert Crépes, 650, 
651 
for Fruit Tarts, 643 
for Veal Kidneys, 418 
FLAMICHE, 151 
FLAMING see Index: Flam- 
bées 
FLAN (S) 
Fruit, 655-8 


FLAN(S) (continued) 
des Isles, 631 
Ring, illus., 143 


FLEURETTE see Cream, 16- ° 


17 
FLOATING ISLAND (men- 
tioned), 622 
FLOUR 
« General Information, 
17-18 
French and American, 
18 
How to Measure, 17 
and Butter 
Paste (Sauce Thick- 
ener), 58, 64, 265 
Roux (Sauce Thick- 


ener) 
for Brown Sauces, 
68 
for White Sauces, 
56 
FOIE 
Gras 
with Eggs see Sugges- 
tions, 125 
with Steak Rossini, 
299 
Stuffing 
with Prunes for 
Goose, 284 
with Truffles for 
Beef, 303 
de Veau 


a la Moutarde, 407 
Sauté, 405 
de Volaille 
en Aspic, 548 
Mousse de, 559 
FOLD, TO (definition of), 
13; ¿llus 161 
FONDANT AU CHOCOLAT, 
604 
FONDS 
d’Artichauts see Index: 
Artichauts, Fonds de 
Blanc, 109 
de Volaille, 109 
Brun, 110 
de Volaille, 110 
de Cuisine, 106-10 
Simple, 107 
FONDUE 
Croquettes, 203 
de Crustacés, 202 


xiii 


FONDUE (continued) 
au Gruyère, 201 
de Poulet, 262 
de Volaille, 203 
FooD MILL, żllus., 9 
FOOD PROCESSOR, z/lus., 9 
see also Electric Food 
Processor 
FORCEMEAT see Quenelles, 
184-90 
FORM THE RIBBON, 579 
FOUETTER (to Beat), 11 
FOWL see Chicken, 234; 
see also Index: Duck; 
Goose; etc. 
FRAISES, SAUCE AUX, 592 
FRAMBOISES, SAUCE AUX, 592 
FRANGIPANE, 591 
with Dessert Crépes, 652 
with Pear Tart, 642 
for Savarins, 664 
FRÉMIR, I1 
FRENCH DRESSING, 94 
FRICADELLES 
d’Agneau, 348 
de Veau, 372-5 
FRICASSEE 
Definition of, 258 
of Chicken, 258-65 
see also Index: Beef 
Stew; Veal Stew; etc. 
FRITTONS, 282 
FROSTINGS see Index: Cake 
Fillings 
FROZEN FOODS see Index: 
Peas, Frozen; Chicken, 
Frozen; etc. 
FRUIT (S) 
Confits, 17 
Desserts, 623-32 
Fillings 
for Crêpes, 653-4 
for Savarins, 664 
Flans, 655-8 
Glacéed, 17; see also In- 
dex: Glacéed Fruit 
Sauces, 592 
to Stew or Poach in 
Syrup, 654 
Tarts, 635-47 
see also Index: Apples; 
Pears; etc. 
FUMET 
de Champignons, 512 
de Poisson, 114 


xiv 
G 


GALANTINES, 569 
GALETTES 
au Camembert, 198 
au Fromage, 197 
au Roquefort, 197 
Sablées, 635 
GAME 
Birds Roasted see Coque- 
lets, 246 
Hens, Cold in Escabèche, 
554 
Roast see Coquelets, 
246 
Mousse of, 560 
Sauce, 70 
GARBURE, 48 
GARLIC 
General Information 
Measurements for, 22 
Press, 9 
Removal of Odor, 22 
Butter, 101, 103 
on Mussels, 228 
with Carrots, 480 
with Lamb 
Coating with Mustard, 


335 
Inserted in Leg, 330 


Sauce, 334 
Stuffing with Herbs, 
336 
with Mashed Potatoes, 
520 
Sauce see Index: Sauce, 
Garlic 
with Scalloped Potatoes, 
523—6 
- Soup, 46-8 
GARNITURES see Vegetable 
Suggestions in Recipe 
Texts 


GÂTEAU (X), 667-80 
Biscuit au Beurre, 669 
de Crêpes, 653 
Fourré à la Crème 

d'Orange, 672 
Marquis, le, 679 
à l'Orange, 671 

et aux Amandes, 676 
Reine de Saba, 677 

GELATIN 
in Bavarian Creams, 

596—601 


GALANTINES — GRUYÈRE 


GELATIN (continued) 
in Cream Sauce (Chaud- 
froid), 551 
French (in Sheets), 113 
in Mayonnaise, 91 


for Stocks and :Aspics, 


113 
GELÉE, 112-14 
de Groseilles, 594 
GIBLET STUFFING \ FOR 
CHICKEN, 243 
GIGOT, 329-44 
GLACAGE 
à l’Abricot, 670 
au Chocolat, 684 
GLACE DE VIANDE, 110 
GLACÉED FRUITS, 17 
in Apple Aspic, 627 
in Bavarian Cream, Gor 
in Custard, 612 
on Savarins, 664 
in Soufflé, 617 
GLAZES FOR DESSERTS 
AND CAKES, 593 
GNOCCHI, 181-4 
Master Recipe (Potato), 
181 
with Cheese, 182 
with Ham, etc., 183 
de Pommes de Terre, 
187 
de Semoule, 183 
with Semolina, 183 
GOOSE, 282-7 
General Information, 
282-3 
Fat, 282 
Preparation for Cook- 
ing, 282 
Stock, 282 
Stuffings for, 283 
Timetable for Roast- 
ing, 283 
Baked with Beans (Cas- 
soulet), 404 
Braised, Chestnut Stuff- 
ing, 285 
Cracklings, 282 
Liver, 282; see also In- 
dex: Foie Gras 
Preserved 
in Cabbage Soup, 48 
in Cassoulet, 399, 404 
Roast, Prune and Foie 
Gras Stuffing, 283 


GRAMS 
Conversion Formulas, 21 
Flour Equivalents, 17- 
18 
Measures and Equiva- 
lents, 20-1 


GRAPE TART see Varia- 


tions, 641 
GRATIN(S) FOR DESSERT 
Apple, 626 
Pear, 630 
GRATIN(S) FOR ENTREE, 
1597 
Brains, 157 
de Cervelles, 157 
Chicken or Turkey, 157 
Endive and Ham, 156 
d’Endives, 156 
aux Fruits de Mer, 156 
Leeks and Ham, 155 
de Poireaux, 155 
de Pommes de Terre 
aux Anchois, 154 
Crécy, 525 
Dauphinois, 523 
Jurassien, 524 
Provengal, 525 
et Saucisson, 155 
‘Savoyard, 524 
Potatoes 
with Onions 
and Anchovies, 154 
and Sausages, 155 
Scalloped, 523-6 
Shredded, with Ham, 
153 
with Spinach, 474 
de Ris de Veau, 157 
Salmon or Other Fish, 
156 
Sweetbreads, 157 
de Volaille, 157 
GRATINÉ, TO (Definition 
of), 13 
GRATINEED DISHES, 153—- 
7; see also Fish, 211, 
216-23 
GRATTONS, 282 
GRAVY see Index: Sauce 
GREASE REMOVAL see De- 
grease, 12 
GRECQUE, LÉGUMES A LA, 
536-40 
GROSEILLES, GELEE DB, 
594 
GRUYERE see Cheese, 16 


HACHER — KITCHEN EQUIPMENT 


H 


HACHER (to Mince), 13 
HAM, 389-99 
General Information, 
389-90 
Types to Buy, 390 .: 
Vegetables and Wines 
for, 390 
Braised, 391-—5 
Master Recipe, 391 
Cream and Mushroom 
Sauce, 392 
in Madeira, 393 
with Mushroom Stuff- 
ing, 394 
in Pastry Crust, 395 
Cold, 577 
Mousse, 561 
Filling with Cheese for 
Appetizers, 202 
Gnocchi see Additions, 
183 
Gratin of 
with Endives, 156 
with Leeks, 155 
with Potatoes, 153 
Hock with Beans, 404 
Omelette see Pipérade, 
137; Suggestions, 136 
Pâté with Veal and Pork, 
566 
Slices, 396-9 
Cream Sauce, 398 
and Madeira, 397 
with Onions, Toma- 
toes, etc., 396 
Soufflé 
see Cheese Soufflé, 
173; Variations, 
166 
Timbales see Variations, 
175 
HAMBURGERS, 300—3 
HARE PATE, 568 
HARICOT DE MOUTON, 
344 
HARICOTS 
Beurre, 448 
Mange-tout a l'Etuvée, 
448 
Verts, 442-7 
a l’Anglaise, 444 
Blanchis, 443 
a la Créme, 445 


HARICOTS (continued ) 
Verts (continued) 
Gratinés, à la Mor- 
nay, 446 


à la Maitre d'Hôtel, 


444 
‘a la Provençale, 447 
Sauce Créme, 445 
HEN, 235 
HERB (S) 
General Information, 
18 
Bouquet, 18 
Butter, 102, 103 
see also Index: Sauce, 
Herb; Tarragon 
HOLLANDAISE SAUCE, 79; 
see also Index: Sauce 
Hollandaise 
HOMARD 
a l’Américaine, 223 
aux Aromates, 223 
en Aspic, 549 
en Chaud-froid, 553 
Thermidor, 221 
HONEY, ORANGE 
(Orange Butter), 
672 
HORS D'OEUVRES, 196- 
206; see also Index: Ap- 
petizers 
HUILE, 19 


I 


ICING see Index: Cake Fill- 
ings 

ILE FLOTTANTE, 622 

ILLUSTRATIONS, LIST OF, 
xvii 

INCORPORER (to Fold), 13 

INGREDIENTS, LIST OF, 
I5-19 

IRON WARE see Pots, 
Pans, 3 


J 


JAM FILLINGS FOR 
CREPES, 654 
JAMBON, 389-99 
Braisé 
et Farci, 394 


JAMBON (continued) 
Braisé (continued) 
au Madère, 393 
Morvandelle, 391 
Farci en Croûte, 395 
Mousse de, 561 
Tranches de 
à la Crème, 398 
Morvandelle, 397 
en Pipérade, 396 
JELLIED STOCK, 112-14 
with Gelatin, 113 
Homemade, 112 
Lining a Mold with, 558 
for Patés in Aspic, 565 
Testing of, 114 
Use of in Aspics, 544-6 
Wine Flavoring for, 114 
JELLY: Fillings for Crépes, 
654; see also Index: 
Jellied Stock 
JULIENNE, to Cut into, 
28-9 
Jus Lif, 70 


K 


KIDNEY(S), 416-20 
General Information, 
416-17 
Master Recipe, 417 
Flambéed, 418 
Sauces for 
Cream and Mush- 
rooms, 418 
Mustard and Parsley, 
417 
Red Wine and Mar- 
tow, 419 
Served with Eggs 
Scrambled see Gar- 
nishings, 126 
Shirred see Sugges- 
tions, 123 
Stuffing with Rice for 
Lamb, 337 
KIRSCH 
Icing see Butter Creams, 
680-4 
Soufflé, 617 
Syrup for Savarins, 663 
KITCHEN EQUIPMENT, 3- 
10 


xvi 


KNIVES, 6 
How to Chop, Dice, etc., 
26-30 


L 


LADYFINGERS 
Master Recipe, 666 
Desserts Molded in, 
605-9, 612 
to Line a Mold with, 
585 
LAITUES BRAISEES, 489 
LAMB AND MUTTON, 328- 
50 
General Information, 
328—32 
to Bone a Leg, 329 
Cuts for Stew, 344 
Discussion of, 328 
Marinades for, 341-2 
Stuffings for, 336-8 
Timetable for Roast- 
ing, 330 
Types of, 328 
Wine and Vegetables 
for, 331-2 
with Beans, 338 
in Cassoulet, 401 
Boiled, 342 
Brains, 408—9, 413-16; 
see also Index: Brains 
Braised, 338 
Kidneys see Index: Kid- 
neys 
Leftover, with Eggplant, 


349 
Leg or Shoulder of, 329- 
44 
Master Recipes 
Braised, 338 
Roast, 332 
Garlic Flavoring, 330, 
336 
Marinated, 341 
Mustard Coating, 335 
Sauces for, 334 
Stuffed, 335 
Mold with Eggplant, 349 
Patties, 348 
Roast, 332 
Shanks, 348 
Shoulder 
General Information, 


330 


KNIVES — MACAROON(S) 


LAMB AND MUTTON 
(continued ) 
Shoulder (continued ) 
Recipes for see Index: 
Lamb, Leg; see also 
Cassoulet, 401 
Stew, 344-8 
General Information, 
344-5 
Master Recipe (Nava- 
tin), 345 
Braised Shanks, 348 
with Mushrooms and 
Onions, 348 
with Red Wine, 347 
with Rice, 348 
with Vegetables 
' (Daube), 348 
LARD 
Gras see Pork Fat, 564 
de Poitrine see Bacon, 15 
LEEK (S), 495-6 
Braised, 495 
Browned with Cheese, 
496 
with Cheese Sauce, 
496 
Cold, 578 
à la Grecque, 539 
Gratin with Ham, 155 
and Potato Soup, 37 
Quiche, 151 
LEFTOVERS see Index: 
Lamb, Leftover; Vege- 
tables, Leftover; etc. 
LEGUMES, 421-535 
LEMON 
Butter 
Cake Filling, 676 
-cream Cake Icing, 
676 
Sauce, 98 
Peel, Glazed, 587 
Tart 
with Almonds, 646 
Soufflé, 645 
LENTILS WITH LAMB see 
Variations, 347 
LETTUCE, BRAISED, 489 
LIME SOUFFLÉ TART, 645 
LIMETTES, TARTE AUX, 
645 
LIQUEURS FOR COOKING, 
32 
LITER-QUART EQUIVA- 
LENTS, 21 


LIVER 
Calf, 405-7 
Master Recipe, Sau- 
téed, 405 
Mustard Coating for, 
407 


Sauces for, 406 
Canapés for Roast Birds, 
247 
Chicken 
in Aspic, 548 
Canapés for Roast 
Birds, 247 
with Eggs see Garnish- 
ings, 126; Sugges- 
tions, 123 
Filling with Cheese 
for Appetizers, 202 
Gnocchi see Addi- 
tions, 183 
Mousse of, 559 
Timbales of, 174 
Goose, 282; see also In- 
dex: Foie Gras 
Pâté with Pork and Veal, 
568 
LOBSTER 
General Information 
-to Deal with Live, 220 
to Steam in Wine, 221 
à l'Américaine, 223 
in Aspic, 549 
Butter see Shellfish But- 
ter, 104 
in Chaud-froid, 553 
Garnish for Fish Filets, 
Phe) 
with Herbal Sauce, 223 
Quenelles, 189 
Quiche, 149 
Soufflé, 170; see also 
Variations, 167 
Tails a l Américaine, 223 
Thermidor, 221 
Timbales see Variations, 
175 
LUNCHEON DISHES, 139— 
206 


M 


MACAROON (Ss) 
Baked with Pears, 630 
Cup Custards, 611 
to Pulverize, 583 


MACAROON(S) — MUSHROOM(S) 


MACAROON(S) (continued) 
Soufflé, 617 
Unmolded, 620 
Substitute for Almonds 
in 
Bavarian Cream, 599 
Caramel Cream, 594 ‘ 
MACERATE (Definition of), 
13 
MACERER (to Macerate), 
13 
MADEIRA WINE 
for Cooking, 32 
for Jellied Stocks and 
Aspics, 114 
Sauce, 75; see also Index: 
Sauce, Madeira 
MAKE THE RIBBON, 579 
MALAKOFF, CHARLOTTES, 
605-8 
MARINADE (S) 
for Beef 
Red Wine 
for Braised Beef, 
310 
for Stews (Daubes), 
322 
Wine and Truffe for 
Filet, 306 
for Lamb 
Cooked Red Wine, 
341 
Red Wine and Bay 
Leaves, 342 
for Pork 
Lemon Juice, 376 
Salt and Spices, 376 


Wine, 377 
for Veal 
Cognac and Madeira, 
358 


for Pâtés, 567 

MARINATE (Definition of), 

13 
MARINER (to Marinate), 

13 
MARQUIS, LE, 679 
MARRONS 

Braisés, 519 

Purée de, 518 
MARROW 

to Prepare, 19 

Sauce, 294, 295, 419 
MARSALA FOR COOKING, 

32 


MATIGNON BRAISING- 
VEGETABLES 
for Beef, 303 . 
for Veal, 354 
MAYONNAISE 
,au Chocolat (Dessert), 
“604 
Sauce, 86; see also In- 
dex: Sauce Mayon- 
naise 
MEASURES 
Flour, 17-18 
Miscellaneous Equiva- 
lents, 21-3 
Tables of Equivalents, 
20-1 
MEAT, 288—420 
Cuts 
American and French 
see specific Meat 
Sections in Text 
Booklet on, 288 
Glaze, 110 
in Flavored Butter 
(Colbert), 102 
in Béarnaise Sauce, 85 
Loaf, Veal, 375; see also 
Pâtés, 564-76 
Stock, 106-14 
MELANGER (to Blend), 11 
METRIC SYSTEM, 20-1 
MIJOTER (to Simmer) 
see Boil, 11 
MINCE, TO, 13, 27 
for Mushrooms, 509 
MIREPOIX, 432 
MOELLE, 19 
MOLDs (Containers) 
for Babas, 660 
to Line with 
Caramel, 584 
Ladyfingers, 585 
for Savarins, 662 
for Soufflés, 161-2 
MOLDS (Food) see Index: 
Custard Molds; Desserts, 
Molded; Mousses; Tim- 
bales 
MORTAR AND PESTLE, 10 
MOUCLADES, 230 
MOULD see Index: Mold 
MOULE CARAMELISE, 584 
MOULES, 226-32 
a la Béarnaise, 230 
au Beurre d'Escargot, 228 
à la Marinière, 227, 228 


MOULES (continued) 
Mouclades, 230 
Pilaf de, 231 
a la Poulette, 230 
à la Provençale, 228 
Salade de, 229 
en Sauce, 230 
Soupe aux, 231 
MOUSSAKA, 349 
MoussE (Dessert) 
General Information 
to Unmold, 586 
Chocolate, 604 
Orange, 603 
à l'Orange, 603 
MoussE(s) (Entrée— 
Cold), 558-64 
General Information 
Jellied Stocks for, 
I12—13 
to Unmold, 559 
Sauce Chaud-froid for, 
551, 563 
Chicken, 560 
Liver, 559 
Duck, Game, or Turkey, 
560 
de Foies de Volaille, 559 
Ham, 561 
de Jambon, 561 
Salmon, 562 
de Saumon, 562 
Shellfish, 564 
MoussE (Entrée—Hot) 
Fish, 187 
MOUSSELINE 
au Chocolat, 604 
de Crustacés, Blanche 
Neige, 564 
de Poisson, 562 
Sauce, 83 
de Volaille, 560 
MOUTON, 328-50 
MUSHROOM (S), 508-17 
General Information 
Discussion of, 508 
to Mince, Slice, Flute, 
509—II 
Preparation of, 508 
Weight Equivalents, 
22 
Broiled, 512 
Canned, 517 
Cold à la Grecque, 537 
Creamed, 514 
Essence of, 512 


xviii 


MUSHROOM (S) 
(continued ) 
Minced (Duxelles), 515 
Quiche, 152 
Sauce see Index: Sauce, 
Mushroom 
Sautéed, 513 
with Garlic, Bread 
Crumbs, 513 
Soufflé see Variations, 
166 
Soup, 40 
Stewed, 511 
Stuffed, 516 
Stuffings and Fillings 
for Chicken, 251 
with Cream Cheese, 
194 
for Eggplant, 501 
for Ham, 394 
for Lamb, 337 
with Swiss Cheese, 202 
for Tomatoes, 508 
Timbales see Variations, 
175 
Partial List of, with other 
Foods 
Artichokes and Car- 
rots, 478 
Beef Stew, 315, 322 
Chicken, 245, 258, 
263, 269 
Eggs, 118, 120 
Fish, 210, 215-16 
Gnocchi (Additions), 
183 
Green Beans (Addi- 
tion), 446 
Rice, 531 
Sweetbreads, 411, 412 
Veal, 355, 360, 362, 
366 
MUSSELS, 226-32 
General Information 
Canned, 226 
Scrubbing and Soak- 
ing, 226 
Garnish for Fish, 213-16 
on Half Shell, Broiled, 
228 
Marinated, for Salad, 
229 
in Sauce, 230 
Soup, 231 
Steamed in Wine, 227, 
228 


MUSHROOM(S) — ONION(S) 


MUSTARD 
Butter, 100 
Coating 
for Chicken, 265 
for Hothouse Lamb, 
328 
for Liver, 407 
Sauce see Index: Sauce, 
Mustard 
MUTTON, 328-50 ‘ 
Brains, 408-9, 413-16; 
see also Index: Brains 
Leg of, 329-44 
Stew, 344-8 


N 


NAP, TO (Definition of), 
13 
NAPPER LA CUILLERE, 13 
NAVARIN, 345 
NAVETS, 485-9 
a la Champenoise, 488 
à l'Etuvée, 486 
Glacés à Brun, 488 
Persillés, 487 
Purée de, Parmentier, 
487 


O 


OEUFS, 116-38 
à la Béarnaise, 120 
à la Bourguignonne, 121 
Brouillés, 125 
sur Canapés, 118 
en Cocotte, 123 
en Croustades, 118 
à la Fondue de Fromage, 
118 
en Gelée, 547 
Miroir, 122 
Mollets, 118 
sur le Plat, 122 
Pochés, 116 
OIE, 282-7 
Braisée aux Marrons, 285 
Confit d’, 48, 399, 404 
Rôti aux Pruneaux, 283 
OIGNONS, 480-5 
à la Crème, 482 
en Garniture, 484 
Glacés 
à Blanc, 481 
à Brun, 483 


OIGNONS (continued) 
à la Grecque, 539 
Persillés, 482 
Soubise, 485 
OIL, TYPES OF, 19 
_OMELETTE(S), 126-38 
General Information, 
126-9 
to Beat Eggs for, 127 
Pans for, 127 
to Transfer to Plate, 
128 
Master Recipes 
Rolled, 132 
Scrambled, 129 
Gratinéed with Toma- 
toes, 136 
Gratinées à la Tomate, 
136 
with Herbs, Cheese, etc., 
135-6 
Pipérade, 137 
ONION (S), 480-5 
General Information 
to Chop, Dice, etc., 27, 
30 
Discussion of, 480-1 
‘Preparation of, 481 
Removal of Odor, 22 


Weight Equivalents, 22 
Braised 


Brown-braised, 483 
White-braised 
(Glazed), 481 
Canned, 484 
Cold à la Grecque, 539 
Creamed, 482 
Garniture, 484 
Green see Shallots, 19 
Quiche or Tart, 150, 151 
and Rice Soubise, 485 
Sauce, 64, 355 
Soup, 43-5 
with Potatoes, 37 
Partial List of, with Other 
Foods 
Braised Onions 
in Beef Stew, 315 
and Brains in Red 
Wine, 415 
in Chicken Fricas- 
see, 258 - 
Coq au Vin, 263 
in Veal Stew, 362 


ONION(S) — PEAR(S) 


ONION(S) (continued ) 
Partial List of, with Other 
Foods (continued ) 
in Chicken Casserole 
Roast, 252 
in Gratin of Potatoes 
and Anchovies, 154: 
and Sausages, 155 
with Peas, 464, 465 
with Pork 
Chops see Varia- 
tions, 389 
Roast, 382 
ORANGE (S) 
Bavarian Cream, 596 
Butters for Dessert 
Crêpes, 650-1 
Cake, 671 
with Almonds, 676 
Cake Fillings and Frost- 
ings 
Butter Cream, 674 
Butter Filling, 672 
with Duck, 276 
Glacées, 629 
Glazed, 629 
Liqueur for Cooking, 32 
Mousse, 603 
Peel 
with Duck, 276 
to Glaze, 587 
Sauce, 76, 83, 276 
Soufflé, 616 
OUNCE-GRAM EQUIVA- 
LENTS, 21 
Flour, 18 
Other Measures, 20 
OVEN 
Temperature Conver- 
sions, 24-5 
Types of, 3 
OYSTERS 
Garnish for Fish Filets, 
215-16 
with Quenelles, 188 
to Poach, 213 


P 


PAIN DE VEAU, 375 
PANCAKES 
Grated Potato, 521 
see also Index: Crêpes 


PANS 
General Information, 


3—6 


Illustrations, 5, 6, 128, , 


192 
for Crêpes, 192 
' fer Omelettes, 127 
PAPRIKA 
Chicken 
« Breasts, 268 
Fricassee, 262 
Sauce, 262, 268 
PARMESAN CHEESE 
Coating for Chicken 
Breasts, 271 
see also Index: Cheese, 
Parmesan 
PARSLEY 
Butter, 102 
in Herb Bouquets, 18 
PARTRIDGE 
with Beans (Cassoulet), 


404 
Cold in Jelly (Escabe- 
- che) 54 
Pâté of, 568 
Roast see Coquelets, 246 
PASTE 
for Babas, 658 
for Cream Puffs, 175 
PASTRY 
Crust 
Duck Baked in, 571 
Ham Baked in, 395 
Dough 
General Information, 
139-40, 632-3 
Decorations with, 
574-5 
Leftovers, 635 
Master Recipes 
for Dessert Tarts, 
633—4 
for Entrée Tarts, 
139—43 
Shells, 143 
Baking of 
for Dessert Tarts, 
634 
for Entrée Tarts, 
146 
with Poached Eggs, 
120 
for Tartlets, 200 
Turnovers, 204 
PATALINA, 183 


xix 


PATE 
a Babas, 658 
Brisée, 139 
Sucrée, 633 
a Choux, 175 
à Crêpes, 191, 649-50 
Sablée, 633 
PATES AND TERRINES, 
564-76 
General Information, 
564-5 
Aspic for, 565 
Baking Dishes for, 
565 
Marinade for, 567 
Pork Fat for, 564 
to Serve, 568 
Storage or Freezing of, 
565 
Master Recipes 
Pork and Veal Stuffing 
for, 565 
Pork, Veal, and Ham 
Paté, 566 
en Croûte, 569-76 
de Canard, 571 
Duck, 568 
Boned, in Pastry Crust, 
571 
Game Paté, 568 
Porc et Veau 
avec Foie, 568 
avec Gibier, 568 
avec Jambon, 566 
Pork and Veal with Liver, 
568 
PEACH (ES) 
Bavarian Cream, 600 
Compote with Raspberry 
Sauce, 630 
with Cup Custards, 611 
with Duck, 279 
Poaching of (Compote), 
630 
Tart, 639 
with Custard see Vari- 
ations, 641 
PEAR(S) 
Baked with Macaroons, 
630 
Flan, 656, 658 
Poached in Red Wine, 
642 
Tart, 638 
with Almond Filling, 
642 


XX 


PEAR(S) (continued) 
Tart (continued) 
with Custard Filling 
see Variations, 641 
PEAS (Fresh, Green), 
461-7 
General Information, 
461-2 
Braised with Lettuce, etc., 
465 
Buttered (I, II Ill), 
462-5 
Canned, 467 
Frozen, 466 
with Onions, 464, 465 
PÊCHES CARDINAL, 630 
PEPPER STEAK, 296 
PEPPERS, SWEET GREEN 
OR RED 
Cold a la Grecque, 540 
in Eggplant Casserole, 
503 
see also Index: Pipérade 
PESTLE 
and Mortar, 10 
and Sieve, 8 
PETIT SUISSE see Cheese, 
16 
PETITS Pots see Index: Pois 
PHEASANT 
Jellied in Escabéche, 554 
Pâté of, 568 
PIE see Index: Pastry; 
Quiches; Tarts 
PIGEON’ 
Jellied in Escabéche, 554 
Roast see Coquelets, 246 
PILAF, PILAU (Risotto), 
532 
de Moules, 231 
de Mouton, 348 
PINEAPPLE 
Boiled in Syrup, 654 
Cream Plombières, 596 
Custard, Unmolded, 631 
Tart, 644 
PIPÉRADE (Tomatoes, Pep- 
pers, etc.) 
Master Recipe (Ome- 
lette), 137 
with Ham Slices, 396 
with Scrambled Eggs 
Cold, 576 
Hot see Garnishings, 
126 
with Shirred Eggs, 123 


PISSALADIÈRE NIÇOISE, 
151 
PISTOU SOUP AND SAUCE, 
45 
PLOMBIERES, 594—6 
PLUM(S) 
Flan, 657 
Poached in Syrup, 654 
Tart see Variations, 641 
POACH, TO "a 
Definition of, 13 
see also Index: Eggs; 
Fish 
POCHER (to Poach), 13 
PoÊLE (Skillet), 6 
POIREAUX, 495—6 
Braisés au Beurre, 495 
Gratinés au Fromage, 
496 
à la Grecque, 539 
à la Mornay, Gratinés, 
496 
POIRES AU GRATIN, 630 
Pois ‘(Petits Pois, Pois 
Verts, Pois Frais), 
461-7 
à l’Anglaise, 462 
en Braisage, 464 
Etuvés au Beurre, 463 
à la Francaise, 465 
aux Oignons, 464 
POISSON, 207-33 
Coquilles St. Jacques 
à la Parisienne, 216 
à la Provençale, 218 
Homard 
à l’Americaine, 223 
aux Aromates, 223 
Thermidor, 221 
Moules, 226—32 
Mousses, Mousselines, 
562-4 
Sole, Filets de 
Bercy, 210 
Bonne Femme, 216 
à la Bretonne, 211 
à la Dieppoise, 214 
Farcis, 216 
Gratinés, à la Pari- 
sienne, 211 ? 
a la Nantua, 216 
a la Normande, 215 
Pochés au Vin Blanc, 
208 
Walewska, 215 
Soufflés de, 168~70 


PEAR(S) — PORK 


POIVRONS A LA GRECQUE, 
540 
POMMES 
Aspic de, 627 
Charlotte de, 623 
Gratin de, 626 
Normande en Belle Vue, 
624 
a la Sevillane, 628 
Tartes de, 635, 637, 638 
POMMES DE TERRE, 520-8 
Crépes de, 521 
Gratins de 
aux Anchois, 154 
Crécy, 525 
Dauphinois, 523 
Jurassien, 524 
Provençal, 525 
Rapée Morvandelle, 
153 
et Saucisson, 155 
Savoyard, 524 
à l'Huile, 541 
Purée de, à Ail, 520 
Sautées, 526-8 
Château, 526 
en Dés, 528 
pour Garniture, 526 
‘Parisienne, 528 
PORC, 375-89 
Braisé 
avec Choucroute, 385 
aux Choux Rouges, 
384 
Côtes de, 385-9 
Charcutiére, 388 
Poélées, 386 
Robert, 388 
Sauce Nénette, 387 
Ragoûts de, 389 
Rôti de, Poélé, 378-84 
aux Choux, 383 
Grand’Mére, 382 
aux Navets, 383 
Sylvie, 385 
PORK, 375-89 
General Information, 
375-80 
Cuts for 
Boiling, 307 
Chops, 386 
Roasting and Brais- 
ing, 378 
Stew, 389 
Fat, Discussion of, 
564 


PORK — POULET(S) 


PORK (continued) 
General Information 
(continued) 
Marinades for, 376-7 
Temperature and Tim- 
ing, 379 


Vegetables and Wines, 


379-80 
with Beans in Cassoulet, 
399 
Boiled see -Potée Nor- 
mande, 307 
Brains see Index: Brains 
Braised 
with Red Cabbage, 
384 
with Sauerkraut, 385 
Chops, 385-9 
General Information, 
385-6 
Master Recipe, 386 
Fresh Tomato Sauce, 
388 
Mustard and Cream 
Sauce, 387 
with Vegetables, 389 
Cold, 577 
Paté with Veal and Ham, 
566 
Roast, 378-84 
Master Recipe, 380 
with Cabbage, 383 
with Potatoes and 
Onions, 382 
Sauces for, 381-2 
with Turnips, 383 
Steaks, 385-9 
Stews, 389 
Stuffed with Cheese, 385 
Stuffings 
with Herbs for Lamb, 
336 
with Veal for Pâtés, 
565 
PoRT WINE 
for Cooking, 32 
for Jellied Stocks and 
Aspics, 114 
Sauce, 75 
for Roast Chicken, 
245 
POT AU FEU, 306 
Pot ‘ROAST see Index: 
Beef, Braised 


POTAGES ET SOUPES, 37— 
53 
Potage(s) 
Créme 
de Cresson, 41 
d’Epinards, 43 
" dOseille, 42 
au Cresson, 38 
Germiny, 42 
Parmentier, 37 
Velouté aux Champi- 
gnons, 40 
Vichyssoise, 39 
Soupe(s) 
Aigo Bouido, 46 
a l’Ail aux Pommes de 
Terre, 48 
aux Choux, 48 
aux Moules, 231 


` 


à l’Oeuf, Provençale, 


47 
à l'Oignon, 43 
Gratinée, 44 
des Trois Gour- 
mandes, 45 
au Pistou, 45 
de Poisson, 50 
POTATO(ES), 520-8 
General Information, 
520 
to Slice, 27 
Types of, 520 
Weight Equivalents, 
22 
Cold Dishes with, 578 
Gnocchi, 181-3 
Gratins 
with Anchovies and 
Onions, 154 
with Ham, Eggs, etc., 
153 
with Sausages and 
Onions, 155 
with Spinach, 474 
see also Index: Pota- 
toes, Scalloped 
Mashed 
with Garlic, 520 
with Turnips, 487 
Pancakes, 521 
Salad 
Master Recipe, 541 
with Beans, etc., Ni- 
çoise, 542 
with Beef, 543 


2 


xxi 


POTATO(ES) (continued) 
Salad (continued) 
with Rice and Beets, 
543 
Sautéed in Butter, 526-8 
Master Recipe, 526 
Diced Potatoes, 528 
Potato Balls, 528 
Scalloped, 523-6 
Master Recipe, with 
Milk and Cheese, 
523 
with Carrots and 
Cream, 525 
in Cream, 524 
with Meat Stock and 
Cheese, 524 
with Onions and To- 
matoes, §25 
see also Index: Potato, 
Gratins 
Shredded 
Gratin of, 153 
Pancakes of, 521 
Soup, 37—40, 48 
Starch or Flour 
for Chocolate Soufflé, 
619 
for Sauce Thickening, 
70 
Sticks with Cheese, 198 
Whole, Cooked with 
Chicken, 252 
Pork Chops see Varia- 
tions, 389 
Roast Pork, 382 
POTEE NORMANDE, 306 
POTS FOR COOKING, 3—6 
POTS DE CREME 
au Chocolat, 604 
Petits, 611 
POUDING 
Alsacien, 626 
de Cabinet, 612 
POULARDE, 235 
POULE AU POT, Potée, 
306-7 
POULET(S), 234-72 
a la Broche, 242 
en Cocotte Bonne 
Femme, 252 
Coq au Vin, 263 
Coquelets, 246 
Fondue de, 262 
Fricassée de, 258-65 
à lAncienne, 258 


xxii 


POULET (S) (continued) 
Fricassée de (continued) 
à l'Estragon, 262 
à l'Indienne, 261 
au Paprika, 262 


` 


en Gelée à lEstragon, 


549 
Grillés à la Diable, 265 
Poélé à l'Estragon, 249 
au Porto, 245 
Rôti, 240-9 
à la Normande, 243 
Sauté, 254-8 
Chasseur, 256 
à la Crème, 256 
aux Herbes de Pro- 
vence, 257 
Suprêmes de see Index: 
Suprêmes 
POULTRY, 234-87 
Shears, 8 
Stock, 109, 236, 237 
see also Index: Chicken; 
Duck; Goose; etc. 
PRALIN (Caramelized Al- 
monds), 583 
with Almond Cream, 594 
with Bavarian Cream, 
599 
for Créme Brulée, 589 
in Soufflés, 617, 622 
PRE-SALE, PRES SALES see 
Terms, 328 
PRECOOKING: Symbol 
(*) in Recipes 
PRESERVED GOOSE, 48, 
399, 404 
PRESERVES FOR CREPE 
FILLINGS, 654 
_ PRESSURE COOKER 
for Dried Beans, 400 
for Soups, 37 
for Stocks, 107 
PRUNE 
Stuffing for Goose, 284 
Tart with Cream Cheese, 
648 
PUDDINGS see Index: Cus- 
tard Desserts; Charlottes; 
etc. 
PUFF SHELLS (Puffs), 
177-81 
General Information, 
177-8 
Filling of, 180 
Freezing of, 180 


PUFF SHELLS (Puffs) 
(continued ) 
General Information 

(continued ) 

Paste for (Pate a 
Choux), 175 . 
for Dessert Puffs, 

176 
Cheese, 181 
Large Puffs, 179. , 
Small Puffs, 178 
PUREE, TO (Definition of), 
13 


Q 


QUAIL, ROAST see Coque- 
lets, 246 
QUENELLE(S), 184-90 
General Information, 
184-5 
Fish for, 185 
Meats for, 189 
Master Recipe, 185 
de Crustacés, 189 
of Fish, 185 
Gratin of, 188 
with Oysters, 188 
of Salmon, 189 
Sauces for, 187 
of Shellfish, 189 
aux Huitres, 188 
de Poisson, 185 
Gratin de, 188 
of Poultry or Veal, 189 
de Saumon, 189 
Stuffing with Fish Filets, 
216 
de Veau, 189 
de Volaille, 189 
QUICHE (S), 146-53 
General Information, 
146-7 
Pastry Shells for, 143 
Master Recipe, 147 
Camembert, 148 
aux Champignons, 152 
Cheese, 147-8 
Crab, 149 ? 
Cream and Bacon, 147 
Endive, 152 
aux Epinards, 153 
au Fromage de Gruyère, 
147 
aux Fruits de Mer, 149 


POULET(S) — REFRESH 


QUICHE(S) (continued) 
Leek, 151 

Lobster, 149 

Lorraine, 147 
Mushroom, 152 

aux Oignons, 150 
Onion, 150, 151 

aux Poireaux, 151 
Roquefort, 148 
Shrimp, 149 

Spinach, 153 

à la Tomate, Niçoise, 148 
Tomato, 148 


R 


RABBIT PATE, 568 
RAFRAICHIR (to Refresh), 


13 

RAGOÛT see Index: Beef 
Stew; Lamb Stew; etc. 

RAPÉE MORVANDELLE, 
153 

RASPBERRY 
Creams (Desserts ) 

Bavarian (Custard), 


600 
‘Chantilly (Whipped 
Cream), 608 
Malakoff (Almond), 
607 


Plombiéres (Custard), 


595 
Filling for Savarins, 664 
Sauce, 592 
for Fresh Peaches, 630 
Tart see Variations, 641 
RATATOUILLE, 503 
RED 
Cabbage see Index: Cab- 
bage, Red 
Currant Glaze, 594 
Wine 
Butter, 103 
Syrup for Pear Poach- 
ing, 642 
see also Index: Sauce, 
Red Wine; Wine 
REDUCE, TO (Definition 
of), 13 
REDUIRE (to Reduce), 13 
REFRESH, TO (Definition 
of), 13 | 
Discussion of, for Green 
Vegetables, 422 


REINE DE SABA — SAUCE(S) 


REINE DE SABA, 677 
RIBBON, TO FORM THE, 


579 
RICE, 528-35 
General Information, 


528-9 


Weights and Amounts, ` 


23,529 
Master Recipes 
Braised (Risotto), 


sae a 
Packaged Precooked, 
535 
Ring of, 534 
Steamed, 529 
Wild, 535 
with Bavarian Cream, 
Gor 
and Beef Stew, 321 
and Lamb Stew, 348 
with Mushrooms, 531 
with Mussels, 231 
and Onions (Soubise) 
as Sauce, 355 
as Vegetable, 485 
Parboiled (converted), 


534 
Pudding (Bavarian 
Cream), 601 
Salad, 543, 578 
Starch 
for Chocolate Soufflé, 
619 
for Sauce Thickening, 
70 
Vegetarian Bowl, 531 
RING MOLD FOR SAVA- 
RINS, 662 
RIS DE VEAU, 408-13 
Braisé, 409 
à l'Italienne, 411 
à la Crème, 412 
et aux Champignons, 
412 
Escalopes de, Sautées, 
413 
au Gratin, 413 
a la Maréchale, 412 
RISOTTO, 532 
RIZ, 528-35 
a l'Anglaise, 530 
au Beurre, 530 
en Couronne, 534 
Duxelles, 531 
à l'Impératrice, Got 
à l'Indienne, 529 


RIZ (continued) 
à l'Orientale, 531 
Risotto, Pilaf, Pilau, 532 
Salades, 543, 578 
à la Vapeur, 529 
ROASTING see Index: 
Chicken, Roast; Veal, 
Roast; etc. 


ROGNONS DE VEAU ET DE 


‘MOUTON, 416-20 
a la Bordelaise, 419 
en Casserole, 417 
Flambés, 418 
ROMSTECK, 290 
ROOSTER, 235 
ROQUEFORT see Index: 
Cheese, Roquefort 
ROTISSERIE 
for Chicken, 242 
for Duck, 275 
ROUILLE, 51 
ROUX 
for Brown Sauce, 68 
for White Sauce, 56 
RUBBER SCRAPER OR 
SPATULA, 7 
RUM 
Babas, 660 
for Cooking, 32 
Icing see Butter Creams, 
680-4 
Soufflé, 620 
Syrup for Babas, 660 
RUMSTECK, 290 
RUTABAGAS see Turnips, 
485-6 


S 


SALAD(S), 541-4 
Beef and Potato, 543 


Combination (Niçoise), 


542 


Dressings and Sauces for 


Mayonnaises, 86-93 
Vinaigrettes, 94—6 
Mussel, 229 
Potato 
Master Recipe, 541 
with Beans, etc. (Ni- 
coise), 542 
with Beef, 543 
with Beets, 543 
Rice and Beet, 543 


xxiii 


SALADE (S), 541-4 
à la d'Argenson, 543 
de Boeuf à la Parisienne, 
543 
de Moules, 229 
Niçoise, 542 
SALMON see Index: Fish, 
Salmon 
SALT 
Amounts to Use, 23 
Removal of Excess, 23 
SAUCE (S), 54-105 
NOTE: Sauces for Des- 
sert Listed Separately 
General Information, 
54-5 
Deglazing for, 11 
Enrichments for 
White Sauces 
Butter, 58 
Cream, 59 
Cream and Egg 
Yolks, 6o 
Family of, 55 
Saucepans for, 56 
Stock for 
Brown Sauces, 67 
Fish, 114 
White Sauces (Ve- 
loutés), 56 
Thickenings for: 
Egg Yolks 
for Hollandaise, 
79 
for Mayonnaise, 
86-7 
for White Sauces, 
60 
Flour 
and Butter Paste, 58 
see also: Mock 
Hollandaise, 
64; Coq au 
Vin, 265 
and Butter Roux 
Brown, 68 
White, 56 
Starch, 70 
Sauces for 
Artichokes, 426 
Asparagus, 437-8 
Cauliflower, 458 
Fish, 84, 188, 232-3 
Hamburgers, 302-3 
Lamb, 334 
Liver, 406 


XXIV 


SAUCE(S) (continued) 


Sauces for (continued) 
Pork, 381-2, 387-8 
Steaks, 294-5 
Veal, 366-9, 371, 374 

a l'Ail pour Gigot, 334 

Aïoli, 92 

Allemande, 60 

Alsacienne, 93 

aux Anchois, 66 

Anchovy, 66 
with Garlic for Beef 

Stew, 324 
Aurore, 62 
Batarde, 64 
Béarnaise, 84 
for Filet Steaks, 298 
with Meat Glaze Fla- 
voring, 85 

for Pan-broiled Steaks, 
295 

on Poached Eggs, 120 

with Tomato Flavor- 
ing, 85 

Béchamel 

General Information, 
55 mir. 

Master Recipe, 57 

Enrichments for, 58— 
61 

Sauces Made with, 
61-4 

Bercy 
with Fish Filets, 210 
with Steak, 294 

Beurre 
Blanc, 96 
au Citron, 98 
Nantais, 96 
Noir (Noisette), 98 
see also Index: Beurre 

au Beurre, 96-9 

Bigarade see Index: 
Sauce, Orange 

Blanches, 55-66 

Bordelaise, 76 
for Kidneys, 419 
for Steak, 295 

Bourguignonne 
General Information, 

76 
Recipes 
with Beef Sauté, 
326 
with Beef Stew, 315 


SAUCE(S) (continued ) 
Bourguignonne 
(continued ) 
Recipes (continued ) 
with Chicken (Coq 
au Vin), 263 : 
with Poached Eggs, 
I2I 
Brandy for Steak au Poi- 
vre, 296 ° \ 
Brown, 66-76 
General Information, 
66-7 
Master Recipes, 67-71 
Sauces Made with, 
71-6 
Butter, 98 
Curry, 73 
Deglazing 
General Informa- 
tion, 76 
Some Recipes 
with Cream 
for Chicken 
Breasts, 
268 
for Sautéed 
Chicken, 
256 
with Wine 
for Sautéed 
Chicken, 
255 
and Truffles, 
271 
Madeira, 75 
for Ham, 393 
Mushroom see Index: 
Sauce, Mushroom 
Mustard, 72 
Peppery, 71 
with Pickles, 72 
Port Wine, 75 
Tarragon, 73 
Brune, 67 
au Cari, 73 
à l’Estragon, 73 
aux Fines Herbes, 
73 ? 
Brunes, 66-76 
Butter 
Brown, 98 
for Calf’s Brains, 
413 
with Capers, 99 


SAUCE(S) 


SAUCE(S) (continued) 


Butter (continued ) 
Brown (continued) 
for Chicken Breasts, 
270 
for Shirred Eggs, 
125 
Lemon, 98 
White, 96 
see also Cold Flavored 
Butters, 99; Hol- 
landaise, 79 
Caper, 65 
see also Beurre Noir, 
99 
aux Câpres, 65 
Cardinal (mentioned), 
6o 
au Cari, 63 
Chantilly, 83 
Chasseur, 75, 368 
Chaud-froid Blanche 
Neige 
General Information, 
105 
Recipes 
with Chicken 
Breasts, 551 
with Crab or Lob- 
ster, 553 
with Fish Mousse, 
563 
Cheese 
with Béchamel (Mor- 
nay), 61 
with Wine and Garlic, 
105, 118 
Chivry, 62 
Choron, 85 
Colbert, 85 
Coulis de Tomates, Pro- 
vengale, 78 
Cream 
Master Recipe, 59 
for Chicken Breasts, 
268-70 
Cold see Index: Sauce, 
Chaud-froid 
with Egg Yolks, 6o; 
see also Index: 
Sauce Parisienne 
for Ham, 392, 397, 
398 
for Hamburgers, 302 
with Madeira for Ham, 
397 


SAUCE(S) 


SAUCE(S) (continued) 
Cream (continued ) 
with Mushrooms 
for Beef, 325 
for Chicken Breasts, 
269 


for Chicken Roast, | 


245 
for Ham, 392 
for Kidneys, 418 
for Véal Scallops, 
366 
with Mustard, 382 
and Tomato, 387 
with Port Wine for 
Chicken, 245 
for Roast Chicken, 
243 
for Sautéed Chicken, 
256 
Sour, with Dill, 95 
for Vegetables, 458 
with White Wine for 
Chicken Fricassee, 
258 
Créme, 59 
a la Créme, 458 
Curry 
Brown, 73 
White, 63 
with Baked Eggs 
see Sauce, 124 
with Chicken Fric- 
assee, 261 


Deglazing see Index: 
Sauce, Brown Deglaz- 
ing 

Demi-glace (men- 
tioned), 66 

Diable, 71 

Duxelles, 74 

Egg(s) 

Hard-boiled (Mayon- 
naise), 90 
Soft-boiled 
naise), 93 
Yolk 
and Butter (Hollan- 
daise), 79 
and Cream (Pari- 
sienne), 60 
and Oil (Mayon- 
naise), 86 
Espagnole (mentioned), 


66 


(Mayon- 


SAUCE(S) (continued) 
à l’Estragon, 62 
a la Fondue de Fromage, 
105, 118 
Game, 70 
, Garlic 
and Anchovy for Beef 
Stew, 324 
and Basil for Soup or 
Pasta, 45 
and Egg Yolks for 
Chicken, 257 
Mayonnaise, 92 
and Pepper for Fish 
Soup, 51 
and Rice for Lamb, 
334 
Herbal 
Brown, 73 
with Garlic for 
Chicken, 257 
Hollandaise, 82; see 
also Béarnaise, 84 
. Mayonnaise, 89 
Sour Cream Dressing, 


95 
White Wine, 62 
Hollandaise, 79-85 
General Information, 


79 
Remedy for Turned 
Sauce, 81 
Master Recipes 
for the Electric 
Blender, 81 
for Handmade 
Sauce, 79 
for Mock Hollan- 
daise, 64 
Variations, 82-5 
à l'Italienne, 76, 411 
Joinville (mentioned), 
60 
Jus Lié, 70 
Lemon Butter, 98 
Madeira, 75 
for Braised Ham, 393 
with Foie Gras for 
Steak, 299 
for Ham Slices, 397 
with Mushrooms for 
Steak, 297 
for Sautéed Mush- 
rooms, 515 
with Truffles, 75 


A 


À 


XXV 


SAUCE(S) (continued) 
Madère, 75 
Maltaise, 83 
Marchand de Vins, 295 
Marrow 
with Red Wine, 
for Kidneys, 419 
for Steak, 295 
with White Wine for 
Steak, 294 
Matelote, 415 
Mayonnaise, 86-93 
General Information, 
86-7 
Remedy for Turned 
Sauce, 88 
Master Recipes 
for the Electric 
Blender, 88 
for Handmade 
Sauce, 87 
Variations, 89-93 
Mornay, 61 
Mousseline, 83 
Sabayon, 169 
Moutarde, 95 
à la Normande, 382 
à la Moutarde, 66 
Mushroom 
Master Recipe (Du. 
xelles), 74 
with Cream 
for Chicken 
Breasts, 269 
Fricassee, 258 
Roast, 245 
for Ham, 392 
for Kidneys, 418 
for Sautéed Beef, 


325 
for Veal Scallops, 
366 
with Ham, Herbs, 
etc., 76, 411 
with Madeira for 
Steaks, 297 
with Tomatoes for 
Veal, 368 
Mustard 
Brown, 72 
with Cream 
and Egg Yolks for 
Fish, 66 
for Ham, 398 
for Pork, 382, 387 


XXVI 


SAUCE(S) (continued ) 
Mustard (continued ) 
with Oil for Cold 
Dishes, 95 
with Parsley for Kid- 
neys, 417 
with Tomato, 387 
Nantua, 216 
Nénette, 387 
Normande, 215 
Oil 
Mayonnaises, 86-93 
Vinaigrettes, 94-6 
Onion (Soubise) 
and Béchamel, 64 
and Rice, 355 
Used with 
Boiled Lamb, 344 
Eggs see Sauce, 124 
Veal, 355 
Orange 
Brown 
with Roast Duck, 
276 
Uses for, 76 
Hollandaise for Vege- 
tables, 83 
a l'Orange, 276 
Paprika 
with Chicken Breasts, 
268 
with Chicken Fric- 
assee, 262 
Parisienne (Cream and 
Egg Yolks) 
General Information, 
6o 
Buttering of, 214 
Master Recipe, 60 
for Chicken Fricassee, 
258 
for Fish Filets, 211, 
214-16 
for Mussels, 230 
for Scallops, 216 
for Veal Stew, 362 
Périgueux, 75 
Piquante, 72 
Poivrade, 70 
Port Wine, 75 
and Cream for 
Chicken, 245 
au Porto, 75 
Poulette (mentioned), 
60, 230 
Ragoût, 69 


SAUCE(S) — SAUMON, MOUSSE DE 


SAUCE(S) (continued ) 
Ravigote, 95 
Red Wine 
with Bacon, Onions, 
etc., see Index: 
Sauce Bourgui- 
gnonne 
with Beef Marrow 
for Kidneys, 419 
for Steak, 295, 
Rémoulade, 91 
Riviera, 90 
Robert, 72 
Shallot 
with Red Wine for 
Steak, 295 
with White Wine for 
"Steak, 294 
de Sorges, 93 
Soubise, 64, 355; see 
also Index: Sauce, 
Onion 
for Soufflé Base 
Entrée Soufflés, 163 
Sweet Soufflés, 614, 
619 
Supréme, 59 
de Poisson, 188 
Tarragon 
Béarnaise, 84 
Brown, 73 
for Roast Chicken, 
251 
for Veal Scallops, 
367 
White, 62 
for  Fricasseed 
Chicken, 262 
Tartare, 90 
Thermidor see Lobster, 
227 
Tomato 
Master Recipe, 76 
Fresh Purée with 
Herbs, 78 
with Béchamel, 62 
for Lobster, 223 
with Mushrooms, 368 
with Olives for Beef 
Sauté, 327 ? 
for Pork, 388 
for Tuna or Sword- 
fish, 219 
Truffle, 75 
for Chicken Breasts, 
271 


SAUCE(S) (continued) 
Velouté, 55-64 
General Information, 
5e 
Master Recipe, 57 
Enrichments for, 58— 


61 
Sauces Made with, 
61-4 


Venaison, 70 
Venison, 70 
Vin Blanc, 84 
Vinaigrette, 94 
with Herbs 
and Capers, 95 
and Cream, 95 
with Mustard, 95 
White 
Béchamels and Velou- 
tés, 55—64 
Butter, 96 
Wine 
for Chicken Fric- 
assee, 258 
for Fish Filets, 
210-12, 
214-16 
with Herbs, 62 
Hollandaise for 
Fish, 84 
for Steak, 294 
SAUCE(S) for Desserts, 
588-93 
Creme Anglaise, 588 
Custard, 588 
aux Fraises, 592 
aux Framboises, 592 
Jam or Jelly, 593 
Raspberry, 592 
Strawberry, 592 
SAUCEPANS 
General Information, 
a3) 
for White Sauces, 56 
SAUERKRAUT 
Master Recipe (braised), 
498 
with Duck, 280 
with Meat Garnish, 499 
with Pork 
Chops see Variations, 
389 
Roast, 385 
SAUMON, MOUSSE DE, 562 


SAUSAGE(S) — SOUFFLÉ(S) 


SAUSAGE(S) 
French type, to make, 
403 
Gratin with Potatoes, 
155 
Polish 
with Beans (Cassou- 
let), 404 
with Boiled Beef, 
306 
Stuffing 
with Apples for Duck, 
275 
with Chestnuts for 
Goose, 286 
SAUTE 
General Information, 
13 
Pans for, 6. 
see also Index: Chicken, 
“Sauté; Liver, Sauté; 
etc. 


SAUTOIR (Sauté Pan), 6 
SAVARINS, 662-5 

General Information, 
662 
Fillings for, 664 
Molds for, 662 
Syrup for, 663 

Master Recipe, 662 

Chantilly, 664 

Petits, 665 

Small, for Tea, 665 

with Whipped Cream, 
664 

SCALLOPS 
Bay or Sea 
Gratinéed 
with Cream and 
Mushrooms, 216 
with Wine and 
Garlic, 218 
Timbale see Varia- 
tions, 175 
Veal see Index: Veal 
Scallops 
SEAFOOD see Index: Crab; 
Fish; Lobster; etc. 
SEMOLINA GNOCCHI, 183 
SHALLOT(S) 

General Information, 19 
to Dice or Mince, 30 
Substitutes for, 19 
Weights, 23 

Butter 
with Red Wine, 103 


SHALLOT(S) (continued) 
Butter (continued) 
with White Wine, 
103 
Sauce 
' with Red Wine for 
Steak, 295 
with White Wine for 
, Steak, 294 
SHELLFISH 
Butter, 104 
Filling for Appetizers, 
202 
Garnitures for Fish Fi- 
lets, 212 
Gratin see Salmon Gra- 
tin, 156 
Mousse, 564 
see also Index: 
Clam; etc. 
SHERRY FOR COOKING, 32 
SHORT PASTE, 139, 633; 
see also Index: Pastry 
Dough 
SHRIMP (S) 
in Aspic, 549 
Butter see Shellfish But- 
ter, 104 
to Cook, 213 
as Garnish for Fish Fi- 
lets, 214-15 
Quenelles, 189 
Quiche, 149 
Soufflé, 170; see also 
Variations, 167 
SIEVE, DRUM, 8 
SIMMER, DEFINITION OF 
see Boil, 11 
SKILLET, 6 
for Crépes, 192 
Electric, Use of, 
259 
for Omelettes, 127 
SLICE, How TO, 27-8 
SNAIL BUTTER, 103 
SOLE, FILETS see Index: 
Poisson, Sole 
SORREL SOUP, 42 
SOUBISE 
Sauce 
with Béchamel and 
Onions, 64 
with Rice and Onions, 


Crab; 


254; 


355 
Vegetable (Rice and 
Onions), 485 


xxvii 
SOUFFLÉ(S) 
General Information, 
157—63 
Ahead-of-time Notes, 
161 

Baking and Serving, 
163 

Egg Whites for, 158- 
61 

Molds or Dishes for, 
161-2 

Proportions for, 
162-3 


Timing of, 163 
Entrée, 157-74 
Master Recipe 
(Cheese), 163 


aux Blancs d'Oeufs, 
173 
Cheese, 163 
with Egg Whites 
Only, 173 
Unmolded, 171 
Chicken or Turkey 


see Variations, 167 
de Crabe, 170 
aux Crevettes, 170 
Démoulé, Mousseline, 
BYE 
Egg Whites (no 
Yolks), 173 
aux Epinards, 165 
Fish, 168 
Baked on æ Platter, 
170 
Shellfish see Varia- 
tions, 167 
au Fromage, 163 
de Homard, 170 
Lobster, Crab, or 
Shrimp, 170 
with Poached Eggs, 16 
de Poisson, 168, 170 
Salmon, 166 
de Saumon, 166 
Spinach, 165 
with Ham or Mush- 
rooms, 166 
Sweetbreads or Brains 
see Variations, 167 
Tuna see Variations, 
167 
Unmolded, 171 
Vegetable, 166 
Vendôme, 165 


xxviii 


SOUFFLÉ (S) (continued ) 
Sweet or Dessert, 613- 
2I 
General Information, 
613-14 
Sauce-base for, 614 
Timing of, 614 
Master Recipe (Va- 
nilla), 614 
Almond, 618 
aux Amandes, 618 
au Café, 617 
Caramelized Almonds, 
617 
au Chocolat, 619 
Chocolate, 619 
Coffee, 617 
and Vanilla, 618 
au Cointreau, Curaçao, 
etc., 616 
Cold, Unmolded 
Caramel Almond, 
622 
Rum and Maca- 
roon, 620 
see also Bavarian 
Creams, 6o1 
Démoulé aux Maca- 
rons, 620 
Egg Whites (no 
Yolks), 622 
Glacéed Fruits and 
Kirsch, 617 
au Grand Marnier, 
616 
Half-and-half, 618 
Macaroon, 617 
and Rum, Un- 
molded, 
620 
Orange, 616 
Panaché, 618 
Praliné, 617 
Rothschild, 617 
Tart with Lemon, 645 
Vanilla, 614 
Half-and-half, 618 
à la Vanille, 614 
SOUP(S), 37-53 
General Information, 37 
Electric Blender for, 
37 
Pressure Cooker for, 
37 
Bouillabaisse, 52 
Cabbage, 48 


SOUP(S) (continued ) 
Cold Potato 
and Leek (Vichys- 
soise), 39 
and Watercress, 39 
see also Variations, 39 


Fish, 50 
Garlic, 46 
with Poached Eggs, 
47 lig. 
with Potatoes, 48 
Garnishings 
Bread Rounds (Croû- 
tes), 44 


Garlic Sauce 
with Basil (Pistou), 
45 
"with Peppers 
(Rouille), §1 
Leek and Potato, 37 
Mushroom, 40 
Mussel, 231 
Onion, 43-5 
and Potato, 37 
Potato (es ) 
with Fish Soup, 51 
and Garlic, 48 
and Leek or Onion, 37 
with Watercress, 38 
Sorrel, 42 
Spinach, 43 
Vegetable 
45 
Watercress 
Cream of, 41 
and Potato, 38 
SOUPE see Index: Potages 
et Soupes 
SOUR CREAM 
General Information, 16 
Dressing, 95 
to Make, 16 
SPATULA, WOODEN, 7 
SPINACH, 467-76 
General Information, 
467-8 
Preparation of, 468 
Saucepans for see 
Warning, 469 
Master Recipes 4 
Blanched, Chopped 
(Precooking), 
468 
Cooked, Chopped 
(Purée), 469 
Frozen, 475 


(Provençal), 


SOUFFLÉ(S) — STEAK 


SPINACH (continued ) 
Braised 
in Butter (Buttered), 
470 
in Cream (Creamed), 
471 
in Stock, 470 
Canapés, 472 
Crêpes (Pancakes), 474 
under Giant Crêpe, 
473 
Custard Mold, 474 
Timbales see Varia- 
tions, 175 
Filling for Crêpes, 194 
Gratin with Potatoes, 
474 
Gratinéed 
with Cheese, 471 
with Cheese Sauce, 
472 
with Ham, 470 
Omelette, 136 
with Poached Epgs see 
Other Ideas, 119; 
Soufflé, 165 
Quiche, 153 
Soufflé, 165 
Soup, 43 
Timbales see Variations, 
175 
SPIRITS FOR COOKING, 32 
SPIT ROASTING 
for Chicken, 242 
for Duck, .275 
SPONGECAKE 
Butter, 669 
Chocolate, 679 
Orange, 671 
and Almond, 676 
SPREADS AND FILLINGS 
FOR APPETIZERS, 201-3 
SQUAB, ROAST see Coque- 
lets, 246 
STAINLESS STEEL WARE 
see Pots, 3 
STARCH (Corn, Potato, 
Rice) 
for Soufflé Sauce Base, 
614, 619 
Thickening for Brown 
Sauce, 70 
STEAK 
au Poivre, 296 
.see also Index: Beef 
Steak; Ham Steak; etc. 


STEW — TABLES 


STEW see Index: Beef 
Stew; Veal Stew; etc. 
STOCKS (and Bouillons), 
106-15 
General Information, 
106-7 
Clarification of, 111 
Degreasing of, 108 
Ingredients for, 106 
Jellied, 112-14 
Pressure Cooker for, 
107 
Storage of, 109 
Substitutes for, 106 
Stocks for 
Brown Sauces, 67 
Fish 
Sauces, 114-15 
Soup, 114-15 
White Sauces, 56 
Master Recipe, 107 
Brown, 110 
Chicken, 236 
Poultry, 110 
Canned 
Beef, 67 
Chicken, 57 
Clam, 115 
Consommé, 67 
Chicken 
Brown, 236 
White, 237 
Duck, 272 
Fish 
Emergency (Clam 
Juice), 115 
White Wine, 114; 
see also Fish Filets, 
210; Lobster Ther- 
midor, 221 
Goose, 282 
Meat, 107 
Veal, 109 
White, 109 
Chicken, 237 
Poultry, 109 
Veal, 109 
STOVES, 3 
STRAWBERRY (IES) 
Creams (Desserts) 
Bavarian (Custard), 
600 
Chantilly (Whipped 
Cream), 608 
Malakoff (Almond), 
605 


STRAWBERRY (IES) 
(continued ) 
Creams (Desserts) 
(continued ) a 
Plombières (Custard), 


595 

Filling for Savarins, 664 
with Rum Babas, 661 
Sauce, 592 


we Tart, 640 


STRAWS (Potato with 
Cheese), 198 
STUFFING(S) 
for Beef Filet 
Foie Gras and Truffles, 
303 
for Lamb 
Garlic and Herbs, 336 
Ham and Mushrooms, 


337 
Olive and Ground 
Lamb, 338 
Pork and Herbs, 336 
Rice and Kidneys, 337 
Salmon and Anchovy, 
338 
for Mushrooms, 516 
Mushroom 
for Chicken, 251 
for Eggplant, sor 
for Ham, 394 
for Lamb, 337 
for Tomatoes, 508 
Pork and Veal for Pâtés, 
565 
for Poultry 
Herb and Giblet 
(Chicken), 243 
Mushroom (Chicken), 
251 
Prune and Foie Gras 
(Goose), 284 
Sausage and Apple 
(Duck), 275 
Sausage and Chestnut 
(Goose), 286 
for Tomatoes, 507, 508, 
see also Eggs, 576 
see also Index: Fillings 
SUGAR 
and Butter (Creaming 
of), 581 
Caramelized, 583 
Cookies, 635 
Crust for Tarts, 633 


Xxix 


SUGAR (continued ) 
and Eggs (Beating of), 
579 
Syrup see Index: Syrup 
Weight Equivalents, 23 
SUPRÊMES DE VOLAILLE, 
267-71 
Archiduc, 268 
à Blanc, 268 
à Brun, 270 
aux Champignons, 269 
en Chaud-froid, 551 
a l’Ecossaise, 269 
a la Milanaise, 271 
SUZETTE (Crépes), 650 
SWEETBREAD(S), 408-13 
General Information, 
408-10 
Blanching of, 409 
Soaking and Peeling 
of, 408 
Master Recipe (Braised), 
409 
with Brown Mushroom 
Sauce, 411 
Cold in Salad, 577 
Creamed, 412 
with Mushrooms, 412 
au Gratin, 413 
Gratin of, 157 
Sautéed in Butter, 413 
Soufflé see Variations, 167 
with Egg Whites (no 


Yolks), 173 
Timbales see Variations, 
175 


SYRUP (Sugar) 
for Butter-cream Filling, 
681 
for Fruit Poaching 
Red Wine (Pears), 
642 
Vanilla (Peaches), 
630 
Kirsch for Savarins, 663 
Rum for Babas, 660 


T 


TABLES 
of Equivalents (Ameri- 
can, French, British) 
Flour, 18 
Metric System, 20-1 
Miscellaneous, 21-3 
Temperatures, 24-5 


XXX 


TABLES -( continued) 
Roasting Times see In- 
dex: Chicken; Lamb; 
Pork; etc. 
TAMIS (Drum Sieve), B 
TARRAGON 
Butter, 102 
with Meat Glaze, 102 
Chicken 
in Aspic, 549 
Casserole Roasted, 
249 
Fricasseed, 262 
Sauce, 62, 73; see also 
Index: Sauce, Tar- 
ragon 
TART(S) FOR DESSERT, 
632-48 
General Information, 
632-3 
Custard Fillings for, 
590-2 
Flaming of, 643 
Pastry Shells for, 
632-5 
Apple, 635 
with Custard, 637 
Upside-down, 638 
Apricot, 639 
see also Variations, 
640, 641 
Banana see Variations, 
640, 641 
Cherry, Flambée, 643 
Cream Cheese, 647 
and Prune, 648 
Custard 
with Apples, 637 
with Cherries, 643 
with Pears, 638, 642 
with Strawberries, 640 
Grape see Variations, 
641 
Lemon 
with Almonds, 646 
Soufflé, 645 
Lime Soufflé, 645 
Peach, 639 
and Custard see Varia- 
tions, 641 
Pear, 638 
and Almond, 642; 
see also Varia- 
tions, 640, 641 
Pineapple, 644 


TART(S) FOR DESSERT 
(continued) 
Plum see 

640, 641 
Raspberry see Variations, 
641 l 

Strawberry, 640 

TART(S) FOR ENTRÉE 
Onion, 151 
see also Index? Quiches; 

Gratins 

TARTE(S) SUCREE(S), 
632-48 
aux Abricots, 639 
à l'Ananas, 644 
aux Cerises, Flambée, 

643 
au Citron, 645 
et aux Amandes, 646 
des Demoiselles Tatin, 
638 
aux Fraises, 640 
au Fromage Frais, 647 
et aux Pruneaux, 648 
aux Limettes, 645 
Normande, aux Pommes, 
637 
aux Péches, 639 
aux Poires, 638 
à la Bourdaloue, 642 
aux Pommes, 635 
des Demoiselles Tatin, 
638 
Normande, 637 

TARTELETTES, 200 

TARTLETS, SHELLS FOR, 
200 

TEMPERATURE, FAHREN- 
HEIT-CENTIGRADE CON- 
VERSIONS, 24-5 

TENDERLOIN 
see also Beef, Filet of 
Butt, 290 
Steaks, 296-300 

TERRINE(S) 
de Boeuf, 322 
see also Patés and Ter- 

rines, 564-9 

THICKENERS see Index: 
Sauce, General Informa- 
tion 

THON PROVENÇALE, 219 

TIMBALE(S) 
d'Asperges, 440 
Chicken Liver, 174 
de Crêpes, 195 


Variations, 


TABLES — TRUFFLE(S) 


TIMBALE(S) (continued) 
de Foies de Volaille, 174 
Sauces for, 175 
see Variations, 175: for 

Fish, Ham, Poultry, 
Vegetables 
see also Index: 

Molds 

TIMETABLES FOR ROAST- 
ING see Index: Chicken, 
General Information; etc. 

TOMATES, 505—8 
Concassées, 506 
Farcies Duxelles, 508 
Grillées au Four, 506 
à la Provençale, 507 

TOMATO(ES), 505—-8 
General Information, 

505-6 
to Peel, Seed, Juice, 
etc., 505-6 
Weight Equivalents, 
23 
Baked Whole, 506 
Casserole with Eggplant, 
503 
Omelette 
-Gratinéed, 136 
Open-faced (Pipé- 
rade), 137 
with Onions and Peppers 
see Index: Pipérade 
Purée with Herbs, 78 
Quiche, 148 
in Salad Niçoise, 542 
Sauce, 76-8; see also In- 
dex: Sauce, Tomato 
with Scalloped Potatoes, 
525 
Stuffed, 507-8 
with Scrambled Eggs, 
576 

TOURNEDOS, 290-1; 296— 
300 

TRUFFLE(S) 

General Information, 19 

with Baked Eggs see Sug- 
gestions, 125 

with Chicken Breasts, 
271 

with Fish Filets (Wa- 
lewska), 215 

-with Omelettes see Sug- 
gestions, 136 


Custard 


TRUFFLE(S) — VEAU 


TRUFFLE(S) (continued) 
Sauce, 75 
with Scrambled Eggs, 
126 
in Stuffings 


with Foie Gras for. 


Beef, 303 
for Pâtés, 567 
with Tournedos (Steak), 
299 | 
TRUSSING A CHICKEN, 237 
TUNA see Index: Fish, 
Tuna 
TURKEY 
with Beans in Cassoulet, 
404 
to Bone see Duck, 570 
Leftover 
Filling for Appetizers, 
203 
Gratin of, 157 
Quenelles, 189 
Soufflé see Variations, 


167 

Stuffing for see Goose, 
286 

Timbales see Variations, 
175 


TURNIPS, 485—9 
General Information, 
485-6 
Preparation of, 486 
Blanching of, 486 
Braised in Butter, 486 
Casserole of, 488 
with Duck, 279 
Glazed, 488 
Parslied, 487 
with Pork 
Chops see Variations, 
389 
Roast, 383 
and Potato Purée, 487 
TURNOVERS, 204 


U 


UNMOLDED DESSERTS see 
Index: Desserts, Molded 
UNMOLDING, DIRECTIONS 
FOR 
Aspics, 559 
Cakes, 668 
Desserts, 586 


v 


VANILLA 
General Information 
(Extract, Sugar, Va- 
, nilla Bean), 587 
in Custard 
Desserts, 610-11 
Sauce or Filling, 588— 
9I 
Icing see Butter Creams, 
680-4 
Soufflé, 614 
Half-and-half, 618 
VEAL, 350-75 
General Information, 
350—I 
Cuts for 
Chops, 369 
Patties, 372 
Roasting, 351 
Scallops, 365 
Steaks, 371 
_ Stewing, 360 
Marination of 
for Pâtés, 567 
for Roast (Sylvie), 
357 
Quality, 350 
Timing for Roasts, 


352 
Vegetables and Wines 
for, 352 
Brains, 408—9, 413-16; 
see also Index: Brains 
Chops (Cutlets), 369- 


Ji 
Braised with Herbs, 


369 
Sauces and Varia- 
tions, 371 
Cold, 577 


Kidneys, 416—20; see 
also Index: Kidneys 
Leftover 
Loaf, 375 
in Patties, 375 
Paté with Ham and 
Pork, 566 
Variations, 568 
Patties (Ground Veal), 
372-5 
Master Recipe, 372 
Sauces for, 372-4 
of Leftover Veal, 375 
with Mushrooms, 374 


XXxi 


VEAL (continued ) 
Patties (Ground Veal) 
(continued ) 
with Tomatoes and 
Onions, 372 
with Tuna, 375 
Quenelles, 189 
Roast (Covered Casse- 
role), 351-9 
Master Recipe, 353 
with Diced Vegeta- 
bles, 354 
Gratinéed with On- 
ions 355 
Stuffed (Ham and 
Cheese), 357 
Scallops, 364-9 
General Information, 
364-5 
Master Recipe (Sau- 
téed), 366 
Sauces for 
Cream and Mush- 
room, 366 
Tarragon, 367 
Tomato and Mush- 
room, 368 
Shank with Beans (Cas- 
soulet), 404 
Steaks, 371 
Stews, Sautés, Blanquet- 
tes, 359-64 
General Information, 
359-60 
Blanquette, 362 
with Tomatoes, 360 
Stock, 109 
Stuffing with Pork, 565 
VBAU, 350-75 
Blanquette de, 362 
Cétes de, 369-71 
aux Herbes, 369 
Escalopes de, 364-9 
Chasseur, 368 
à la Crème, 366 
à l’Estragon, 367 
Foie de, 405-7 
à la Moutarde, 406, 
407 
Sauté, 405 
Fricadelles de, 372-5 
a la Créme, 373 
Duxelles, 374 
Mentonnaise, 375 
à la Niçoise, 372 
Pain de, 375 


xxxii 


VEAU (continued ) 
Poélé, 353 
à la Matignon, 354 
Prince Orloff, 355 
Ris de see Index: Ris de 
Veau 
Sauté de, Marengo, 360 
Sylvie, 357 
VEGETABLE(S), 421-535 
General Information, 
421-2 
to Chop, Dice, Mince, 
26-30 
Green (Discussion 
of), 421-2 
see also Index: Peas; 
Potatoes; Spinach; 
etc. 
Cold, 536-41, 577-8 
Mill, ¿llus., 9 
Serving Suggestions see 
Vegetable and Main- 
course Recipe Texts 
Soup 
for Leftovers see Vari- 
ations, 39 
Provencal, 45 
VELOUTÉ SAUCE, 57 
VENISON, SAUCE FOR, 70 
VERMOUTH FOR COOKING 
see White Wine, 31 
VIANDE, 288-420 
VICHYSSOISE, 39 
VINAIGRETTE SAUCES, 
94-6 


VOLAILLE(S), 234-87 
en Escabéche, 554 
Foies de see Index: Foies 
de Volaille 
Mousseline de, 560 
Suprêmes de see ‘Index: 
Suprêmes 


W 


WAFERS, CHEESE, 197 
WATER CRESS 
and Cauliflower Purée, 
460 
Soup, 38, 41 
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES, 
20-23 
Flour, 17-18 
WHITE 
Sauces, 55—66 
Butter Sauce, 96 
Wine see Index: Wine 
Sauce see Index: 
Sauce, White Wine 
WINE(S) (Red, White, 
etc. ) 
General Information, 
31-6 
for Cooking, 31-2 
Flavoring for Aspics, 
114 


VEAU — ZUCCHINI 


WINE(S) (Red, White, 
etc.) (continued) 
General Information 

(continued ) 
Marinades see Index: 
Marinades 
to Serve with Food, 
32-4 
see also Suggestions 
in Main-course 
Recipes 
Sauces see Index: 
Sauce, Red Wine; 
Sauce, Madeira; 
etc. 
Storage and Serving 
of, 34-6 
Temperatures for 
Serving, 35 
WIRE WHIP OR WHISK, 7 


Y 
YEAST 


Batter for Crêpes, 650 
Dough for Babas, 658 


Z 


ZUCCHINI IN EGGPLANT 
CASSEROLE, 503 


A NOTE ABOUT THE AUTHORS 


A 


Julia Child, a native of California and a Smith College 
graduate; Simone Beck, French-born and -educated; 
and Louisette Bertholle, half French and half American, 
educated in both countries, represented an even blend- 
ing of the two backgrounds and were singularly 
equipped to write about French cooking for Americans. 
Mrs. Child studied at Paris’s famous Cordon Bleu, and 
all three authors worked under various distinguished 
French chefs. In 1951 they started their own cooking 
school in Paris, L'Ecole des Trois Gourmandes, at the 
same time that this book was taking shape. After that, 
Madame Beck published two cookbooks, Simca’s Cuisine 
in 1972 and New Menus from Simca’s Cuisine in 1979, and 
she continued teaching cooking in France. Madame 
Bertholle also had several cookery books published. 
Shortly after the appearance of Mastering the Art of 
French Cooking, Volume I, in 1961, Julia Child began 
appearing in the Public Television series The French 
Chef, which was aired for many years all over the United 
States, and in 1978 the program Julia Child & Company 
was launched, followed the next year by Julia Child & 
More Company. In 1968 recipes from her early programs, 
many of which were drawn from this book, were pub- 
lished in The French Chef Cookbook. In 1975 From Julia 
Child's Kitchen was published, followed in 1978 and 1979 
by Julia Child & Company and Julia Child & More Com- 
pany, based on those programs. Also based on television 
programs were the two books—Cooking with Master 
Chefs and In Julia's Kitchen with Master Chefs—she 
wrote in the mid-rggos, as well as Julia and Jacques 
Cooking at Home, with Jacques Pépin, in 1999. The Way 
to Cook, her magnum opus, was published in 1989, and 
Julia’s Kitchen Wisdom, a distillation of essential tech- 


niques and recipes, in 2000 . 


ost 
sa 
THE TEXT OF THIS BOOK 


IS SET IN GRANJON 


THE TEXT OF THIS BOOK IS SET IN GRANJON, a type 
named in compliment to Robert Granjon, type-çútter and printer— 
Antwerp, Lyons, Rome, Paris—active from 1523 to 1590. The bold- 
est and most original designer of his time, he was one of the first to 
practice the trade of type-founder apart from that of printer. 

This type face was designed by George W. Jones, who based his 
drawings on a type used by Claude Garamond (1510-61) in his 
beautiful French books, and more closely resembles Garamond's 
own than do any of the various modern types that bear his name. 

This book was composed by the Kingsport Press, Inc., Kingsport, 
Tennessee, and Maryland Linotype, Baltimore, Maryland, and 
printed by Kingsport Press, Inc. 


Typography and binding design by 


WARREN ri CHAPPELL 


Cover design: Adaptation by Naomi Osnos based 
on original design by Jay ]. Smith Design Studio, Inc. 














Julia Child, a native of California and a Smith Col- 
lege graduate; Simone Beck, French-born and -edu- 
cated; and Louisette Bertholle, half French and half 
American, educated in both countries, represented 
ameven blending of the two backgrounds and were 
singularly equipped to write about French cooking 
for Americans. Mrs. Child studied at Paris’s famous 
Cordon Bleu, and all three authors worked under 
various distinguished French chefs. In 1951 they 
started their own cooking school in Paris, L'Ecole 
des Trois Gourmandes, at the same time that this 
book was taking shape. After that, Madame Beck 
published two cookbooks, Simca’s Cuisine in 1972 
and New Menus from Simca’s Cuisine in 1970, and she 
continued to teach cooking in France. Madame 
Bertholle also had several cookery books published. 
Shortly after the appearance of Mastering the Art of 
French Cooking in 1961, Julia Child began appearing 
in the public television series The French Chef, which 
aired for many years all over the United States, and 
in 1978 the program Julia Child & Company was 
launched, followed the next year by Julia Child & 
More Company. In 1968 recipes from her early pro- 
grams, many of which were drawn from this book, 
were published in The French Chef Cookbook. In 1975 
From Julia Child’s Kitchen was published, followed in 
1978 and 1979 by Julia Child & Company and Julia 
Child & More Company, based on those programs. 
Also based on television series were the two books— 
Cooking with Master Chefs and In Julia's Kitchen with 
Master Chefs—she wrote in the mid-1990s, as well as 
Julia and Jacques Cooking at Home, with Jacques 
Pépin, in 1999. The Way to Cook, her magnum opus, 
was published in 1989, and in 2000 she gave us Julia's 
Kitchen Wisdom, a distillation of her years of cooking 


experience. 


WITH MORE THAN 100 ILLUSTRATIONS 


BY SIDONIE CORYN 


Jacket design by Steven Amsterdam, after an 
adaptation by Naomi Osnos based on an original 
design by Jay J. Smith Design Studio, Inc. 


x 4 


A 


Alfred A. Knopf, Publisher, New York 


www.aaknopf.com 





| PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL CHILD 





at cs 





Authors Julia Child, Louisette Bertholle, and 
Simone Beck working with their maître, 
Chef Max Bugnard, over a final flavoring 


ISBN 0-375-41340-5 WRAN 


780375"413407 





