Rhode Island Food Code
Effective 1/8/2025

216-RICR-50-10-1
TITLE 216 – DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
CHAPTER 50 – ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH
SUBCHAPTER 10 – FOOD PROTECTION
PART 1 – RHODE ISLAND FOOD CODE
1.1 Authority and Scope
1.1.1 Authority
A. These Regulations are amended pursuant to the authority of R.I. Gen. Laws
Chapters 21-27 and 23-1 and are developed for establishing minimum standards
for food safety and sanitation in food businesses and food establishments.
1.1.2 Scope
A. These Regulations establish definitions; sets standards for management and
personnel, food operations and equipment and facilities; and provides food
establishment plan review, plan issuance, inspection, employee restriction and
permit suspension. It applies to retail food operations within food establishments
licensed by the Rhode Island Department of Health (RIDOH) but does not apply
to activities regulated by Part 4 and Part 6 of this Subchapter.
1.2 Incorporation by Reference
A. These Regulations hereby adopt and incorporate the 2022 FDA Food Code by
reference, not including any further editions or amendments thereof and only to
the extent that the provisions therein are not inconsistent with these Regulations.
1.3 Definitions
A. Wherever used in this Part, the terms listed below shall be construed in the
following manner:
1. "Approved" means approved by the Director or his or her duly appointed
agents.
2. "Approved source" means that the food is purchased from commercial
supplies, including cottage food manufacturers, under regulatory control
that has been deemed acceptable by RIDOH based on a determination of
conformity with principles, practice and generally recognized standards
that protect public health.

3. "Bed and breakfast" means an owner-occupied residence providing
accommodations for a charge to the public in operation for more than ten
(10) nights in a twelve (12) month period. Breakfast may be only provided
to guests. The total number of visitors shall not exceed twelve (12),
including the owner and any other individuals living or eating on the
premises. Bed and breakfast establishments shall not include motels,
hotels or boarding houses.
4. "Center" means the Center for Food Protection, RIDOH.
5. "Code" means the FDA Food Code (2022).
6. "Commissary" means an operating base location to which a mobile food
establishment or transportation vehicle returns regularly for such things as
food preparation, food storage, vehicle, and equipment cleaning,
discharging liquid or solid wastes, refilling water tanks and ice bins.
7. “Cottage food manufacture” means the production in accordance with the
requirements of R.I. Gen. Laws § 21-27-6.2 of allowable foods for retail
sale directly to the consumer in a residential kitchen or a rented
commercial kitchen licensed by RIDOH.
8. "Director" refers to the Director of RIDOH or the Director's duly appointed
agents.
9. "Employee" means any person who works with or without pay in a food
establishment.
10. "Farm home food manufacture" means the production in accordance with
the requirements of R.I. Gen. Laws § 21-27-6.1 of food for retail sale in a
residential kitchen on a farm which produces agricultural products for
human consumption and the operator of which is eligible for exemptions
from the sales and use tax in accordance with R.I. Gen. Laws § 44-18-
30(32).
11. "Farmer's market" means a market where two (2) or more farmers are
selling produce exclusively grown on their own farms on a retail basis to
consumers. Excluded from this term is any market where farmers or
others are selling produce at wholesale and/or any market in which any
individual is selling produce not grown on his or her own farm.
12. "Food" means:
a. Articles used for food or drink for people or animals;
b. Chewing gum; and/or
c. Articles used for components of any food or drink article.

13. "Food business" means and includes any establishment or place, whether
fixed or mobile, where food or ice is held, processed, manufactured,
packaged, prepared, displayed, served, transported or sold.
14. "Food service establishment" means any fixed or mobile restaurant, coffee
shop, cafeteria, short-order café, luncheonette, grill, tearoom, sandwich
shop, soda fountain, tavern, bar, cocktail lounge, nightclub, roadside
stand, industrial feeding establishment, cultural heritage education facility,
private, public or non-profit organization or institution routinely serving
food, catering kitchen, commissary or similar place in which food or drink
is prepared for sale or for service on the premise or elsewhere, and any
other eating or drinking establishment or operation where food is served or
provided for the public with or without charge.
15. "Full-time equivalent" means forty (40) hours a week.
16. "Good hygiene practices" means proper handwashing and personal
cleanliness as specified under §§ 2-3 and 2-4 of the Code.
17. "Hazard analysis critical control point" or "HACCP" means a written
document that delineates the formal procedures for following HACCP
principles developed by the National Advisory Committee on
microbiological criteria for foods.
18. "Highly susceptible population" means persons who are more likely than
other people in the general population to experience foodborne disease
because they are:
a. Immunocompromised, preschool age children, or older adults; and
b. Obtaining food at a facility that provides services such as custodial
care health care or assisted living, such as a child or adult day care
center, kidney dialysis center, hospital or nursing home, or
nutritional or socialization services such as a senior center.
19. "Itinerant vendor" means a food vending business serving food or drink
from any establishment or conveyance without food locations and without
connection to water supply and sewage disposal systems.
20. "Manager certified in food safety" means a person certified in this State in
accordance with the requirements in R.I. Gen. Laws Chapter 21-27.
21. "Mobile food establishment" or "MFE" means a food service operation that
is operated from a movable motor driven or propelled vehicle, portable
structure, or watercraft that can change location.
22. "Mobile food service unit" means a unit that prepares and/or sells food
products for direct consumption.

23. "Operator" in relation to food vending machines means any person who by
contract, agreement, lease, rental or ownership sells food from vending
machines.
24. "Person" means any individual, firm, co-partnership, association, or private
or municipal corporation.
25. "Person in charge" means the individual present at a food establishment
who is responsible for the operation at the time of inspection.
26. "Permanent food establishment" or "PFE" means a licensed food
establishment operating in a permanently constructed structure. This does
not include a temporary food establishment or mobile food establishment.
27. "Processor" means one who combines, handles, manufactures or
prepares, packages and stores food products.
28. "Retail peddler" means a food business which sells meat, seafood, and
dairy products directly to the consumer, house to house or in a
neighborhood.
29. "RIDOH" means the Rhode Island Department of Health.
30. "R.I. Gen. Laws" means the General Laws of Rhode Island, as amended.
31. "Roadside farm stand" means a stand or location adjacent to a farm where
produce grown only on that farm is sold at the time of harvest.
32. "Special event" means a temporary event, or transitory public gathering
that takes place at a given location for a specific purpose, including, but
not limited to, a fair, festival, exposition, show, concert or other similar
activity that does not recur on a regularly scheduled basis within a year
and is conducted wholly on public property or partly on public property.
The event has a defined start and stop date, with the given event not
exceeding fourteen (14) consecutive days.
33. "Special event sponsor" means the person, group, association,
organization, corporation or governmental agency sponsoring or
promoting and coordinating a special event.
34. "Temporary food establishment" means a food establishment that
operates for a period of no more than fourteen (14) consecutive days in
conjunction with a single event or celebration.
35. "Time temperature control for safety food” or “TCS" means any food or
food ingredient, natural or synthetic, in a form capable of supporting
pathogenic microorganism growth or toxin formation.

36. "Vending machine site or location" means the room, enclosure, space or
area where one (1) or more vending machines are installed and/or
operated.
37. "Warehouse" means a place for the storage of dried, fresh or frozen food
or food products, not including those areas associated within or directly
part of a food establishment or retail market.
1.4 Management and Personnel
1.4.1 Supervision
A. The food establishment shall have a manager certified in food safety, as
specified in Part 2 of this Subchapter.
B. Food employees and conditional employees are informed in writing of their
responsibility to report in accordance with the law, to the person in charge,
information about their health and activities as they relate to diseases that are
transmissible through food.
1.4.2 Employee Health – Exclusions and Restrictions
The Person in Charge shall adhere to the exclusion or restrictions requirements
within the 2022 FDA Food Code based on the food employee’s symptoms and/or
diagnosis. The following exceptions apply:
A. General Exclusions for Symptoms of Vomiting and Diarrhea
1. Conditions of Exclusion
a. The person in charge must exclude a food employee from the
premises if the food employee is symptomatic with vomiting,
diarrhea.
2. Removing Exclusion
a. If the food employee who was excluded is not associated with a
confirmed disease outbreak, unless otherwise prohibited by
RIDOH, the person in charge may reinstate the food employee,
after discussing good hygiene practices with the employee, once
more than forty-eight (48) hours have passed since symptoms of
vomiting and diarrhea resolved.
B. General Exclusions for Salmonella
1. Conditions of Exclusion

a. The person in charge must exclude a food employee from the
premises if the food employee is symptomatic with vomiting or
diarrhea and diagnosed with an infection from nontyphoidal
Salmonella.
b. If a food employee is diagnosed with an infection from nontyphoidal
Salmonella and is asymptomatic, the person in charge must
discuss good hygiene practices with the employee, and he/she may
return to work.
2. Removing Exclusion
a. If the food employee who was excluded is not associated with a
confirmed disease outbreak, unless otherwise prohibited by
RIDOH, the person in charge may reinstate the food employee,
after discussing good hygiene practices with the employee, once
more than twenty-four (24) hours have passed since symptoms of
vomiting and diarrhea resolved.
b. If the food employee who was excluded is associated with a
confirmed disease outbreak, the food employee may be reinstated
after the person in charge discusses good hygiene practices with
the employee if one (1) of the following conditions is met:
(1) The excluded food employee provides to the person in
charge written medical documentation from a health
practitioner stating that the food employee is free of
nontyphoidal salmonella infection based on test results
showing two (2) consecutive negative stool specimen
cultures taken:
i. Not earlier than forty-eight (48) hours after
discontinuance of antibiotics; and
ii. At least twenty-four (24) hours apart.
(2) The person in charge obtains approval from RIDOH to
reinstate the food employee.
1.5 Food
1.5.1 Preventing Contamination from Hands
A. Food employees may not contact exposed, ready-to-eat food with their bare
hands and shall use suitable utensils such as deli tissue, spatula, tongs, single-
use gloves or dispensing equipment. This does not apply to the following:

1. Contains a raw animal food and is to be cooked in the food establishment
to heat all parts of the food to minimum temperatures as specified in the
Code.
2. Does not contain a raw animal food but it is to be cooked in the food
establishment to heat all parts of the food to a temperature of at least
sixty-three degrees Celsius (63° C) (one hundred forty-five degrees
Fahrenheit (145° F)).
1.5.2 Raw Animal Foods
A. A raw animal food such as raw egg, raw fish, raw-marinated fish, raw molluscan
shellfish, or steak tartare; or a partially cooked food such as lightly cooked fish,
soft cooked eggs, or rare meat other than whole-muscle, intact beef steaks as
specified in the Code, may be served or offered for sale upon consumer request
or selection in a ready-to-eat form if:
1. The food service establishment serves a population that is not a highly
susceptible population;
2. The food, if served or offered for service by consumer selection from a
children's menu, does not contain comminuted meat;
3. The consumer is over twelve (12) years of age and is informed as
specified under the Consumer Advisory in the Code that to ensure its
safety, the food should be cooked as specified therein.
1.5.3 Time as a Public Health Control
A. If time without temperature control is used as the public health control for a
working supply of time temperature control for safety food before cooking, or for
ready-to-eat time temperature control for safety food that is displayed or held and
sold for immediate consumption:
1. Written procedures shall be approved in advance, maintained in the food
service establishment and made available to RIDOH upon request that
specifies:
a. Methods of compliance with time-maximum up to four (4) hours and
up to six (6) hours if the food starts at less than or equal to forty-
one degrees Fahrenheit (≤ 41° F) and never exceeds seventy
degrees Fahrenheit (70° F); and
b. Methods of compliance with cooling for food that is prepared,
cooked, and refrigerated before time is used as a public health
control.
1.5.4 Pasteurized Foods, Prohibited Reservice and Prohibited Food

A. In addition to a food service establishment that serves a highly susceptible
population, undercooked comminuted meat may not be offered for sale or service
for children twelve (12) years of age and under.
1.5.5 Drinking Water
A. Any food business or food service establishment that utilizes drinking water to
wash, prepare or cook food or drink that is sold on the premises or uses drinking
water to clean food contact surfaces of equipment and utensils, must obtain its
drinking water from a public water system pursuant to R.I. Gen. Laws Chapter
46-13, Public Drinking Water Supply.
B. Any food business or food service establishment that does not utilize drinking
water to wash, prepare or cook food or drink that is sold on the premises and
does not use drinking water for food contact surfaces of equipment and utensils,
may obtain its drinking water from a nonpublic water system that is constructed,
maintained and operated pursuant to law regarding nonpublic water systems.
C. Any variance of exception to the public water system requirement that was
granted to a food business or food service establishment prior to the effective
date of this Part remains in full force and effect and the food business or food
service establishment may continue to operate pursuant to the variance or
exception.
D. Any food business or food service establishment that does not use drinking water
to wash, prepare or cook food sold on the premises and does not use drinking
water to clean food contact surfaces of equipment and utensils that seeks to use
drinking water to wash prepare or cook food or drink sold on the premises or
wash food contact surfaces of equipment and utensils, must comply with the
requirements of R.I. Gen. Laws Chapter 46-13, Public Drinking Water Supply,
and Subchapter 05 Part 1 of this Chapter, Public Drinking Water.
1.5.6 Food Donation
A. All food donations must be made pursuant to R.I. Gen. Laws Chapter 21-34.1,
Rhode Island Food Donation Act.
1.5.7 Approved Source, Romaine Lettuce
A. Romaine lettuce shall be obtained from an approved source marked with the
harvest location and date.
1.6 Physical Facilities
1.6.1 Prohibiting Animals
A. Live animals may not be allowed on the premises of a food establishment, except
as follows:

1. Live animals may be allowed in the following situations if the
contamination of food; clean equipment, utensils, and linens; and
unwrapped single-service and single-use articles will not result:
a. Edible fish or decorative fish in aquariums, shellfish or crustacea on
ice or under refrigeration, and shellfish and crustacea in display
tank systems;
b. Patrol dogs accompanying police or security officers in offices and
dining, sales, and storage areas, and sentry dogs running loose in
outside fenced areas;
c. Service animals controlled by a disabled employee or person are
permitted in areas that are not used for food preparation and that
are usually open to customers, such as indoor and outdoor dining
and sales areas, but only if a health or safety hazard will not result
from the presence or activities of the service animal.
d. Pets in the common dining areas of institutional care facilities such
as nursing homes, assisted living facilities, group homes, or
residential care facilities at times other than during meals if:
(1) Effective partitioning and self-closing doors separate the
common dining areas from food storage or food preparation
areas,
(2) Condiments, equipment, and utensils are stored in enclosed
cabinets or removed from the common dining areas when
pets are present, and
(3) Dining areas including tables, countertops, and similar
surfaces are effectively cleaned before the next meal
service; and
e. In areas that are not used for food preparation, storage, sales,
display, or dining, in which there are caged animals or animals that
are similarly confined, such as in a variety store that sells pets or a
tourist park that displays animals.
2. Live or dead fish bait may be stored if contamination of food; clean
equipment, utensils, and linens; and unwrapped single-service and single-
use articles will not result.
3. A food establishment with an outdoor dining area may allow a patron's dog
to accompany the patron in the outdoor dining area during the hours
designated by the owner of the restaurant.

a. All persons must comply with R.I. Gen. Laws § 21-27-12 and this
Part.
b. This Section shall not affect the right of an individual to use a
service animal as provided by R.I. Gen. Laws.
1.6.2 Three-Compartment Sinks
A. For new establishments and an establishment that has undergone a renovation
where the cost is fifty (50%) percent of the establishment value, a three-
compartment sink is required at a bar that serves food or beverages.
1.7 Compliance
1.7.1 Contents of the Plans and Specifications
A. The plans and specifications for a food establishment, including a food
establishment specified under HACCP Plan requirements under the Code, shall
include, as required by RIDOH based on the type of operation, type of food
preparation, and foods prepared, the following information to demonstrate
conformance with Code provisions:
1. Intended menu;
2. Anticipated volume of food to be stored, prepared, and sold or served;
3. Proposed layout, mechanical schematics, construction materials, and
finish schedules;
4. Proposed equipment types, manufacturers, model numbers, locations,
dimensions, performance capacities, and installation specifications;
5. Evidence that standard operating procedures that ensure compliance with
the requirements of the Code are developed or being developed; and
6. Other information that may be required by RIDOH for the proper review of
the proposed construction, conversion or modification, and procedures for
operating a food establishment.
1.7.2 When a Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP) Plan is Required
A. Before engaging in an activity that requires a HACCP plan, a permit applicant or
permit holder shall submit to RIDOH for approval a properly prepared HACCP
plan as specified in the relevant provisions of the Code if:
1. Submission of a HACCP plan is required according to law;

2. A variance is required as specified under §§ 3-401.11(D)(4), 3-502.11,
and 4-204.110(B) of the Code;
3. RIDOH determines that a food preparation or processing method requires
a variance based on a plan submittal specified in § 1.7.1 of this Part, an
inspectional finding, or a variance request.
B. Before engaging in reduced oxygen packaging without a variance as specified
under § 3-502.12 of the Code, a permit applicant or permit holder shall submit a
properly prepared HACCP plan to RIDOH.
1.7.3 Contents of a HACCP Plan
A. For a food service establishment that is required under § 8-201.13 of the Code to
have a HACCP plan, the plan and specifications shall indicate:
1. General information such as the name of the permit applicant or permit
holder, the food establishment address, and contact information;
2. A categorization of the types of time temperature control for safety foods
that are to be controlled under the HACCP Plan; and
3. A flow diagram or chart for each specific food or category type that
identifies:
a. Each step in the process;
b. The hazards and controls for each step in the flow diagram or chart;
c. The steps that are critical control points;
d. The ingredients, materials, and equipment used in the preparation
of that food; and
e. Formulations or recipes that delineate methods and procedural
control measures that address the food safety concerns involved.
4. A critical control points summary for each specific food or category type
that clearly identifies:
a. Each critical control point;
b. The critical limits for each critical control point;
c. The method and frequency for monitoring and controlling each
critical control point by the designated food employee or the person
in charge;

d. The method and frequency for the person in charge to routinely
verify that the food employee is following standard operating
procedures and monitoring critical control points;
e. Action to be taken by designated food employee or person in
charge if the critical limits for each critical control point are not met;
and
f. Records to be maintained by the person in charge to demonstrate
that the HACCP plan is properly operated and managed.
5. Supporting documents such as:
a. Food employee and supervisory training plan that addresses the
food safety issues of concern;
b. Copies of blank records forms that are necessary to implement the
HACCP Plan;
c. Additional scientific data or other information, as required by
RIDOH, supporting the determination that food safety is not
compromised by the proposal.
6. Any other information required by RIDOH.
1.7.4 Performance and Risk-Based Inspections
A. RIDOH shall prioritize, and conduct inspections based upon its assessment of a
food establishment's history of compliance with the Code and this Part and the
establishment's potential as a vector of foodborne illness by evaluating:
1. Past performance, for nonconformance with the Code and this Part or
HACCP plan requirements that are critical;
2. Past performance, for numerous or repeat violations of the Code and this
Part or HACCP plan requirements that are noncritical;
3. Past performance, for complaints investigated and found to be valid;
4. The hazards associated with the particular foods that are prepared,
stored, or served;
5. The type of operation including the methods and extent of food storage,
preparation, and service;
6. The number of people served; and
7. Whether the population served is a highly susceptible population.

1.7.5 Responsibilities of the Permit Holder
A. In addition to § 8.304.11 of the Code, permit holders must provide immediate
access to shopper card and customer food product purchase information when
needed during an investigation for a foodborne illness or other imminent threat to
public health.
1.8 Supplemental Regulations for Mobile Food Establishments
A. In addition to the specific requirements of this Part, the following apply to mobile
food establishments:
1.8.1 Classifications of Mobile Food Establishments
A. MFE Type 1
1. Commercially processed pre-packaged food that is Non-Time
Temperature Control for Safety food (e.g., cookies, crackers, potato chips,
pretzels)
2. Commercially processed pre-packaged Time Temperature Control for
Safety food that is ready to eat (e.g., cold sandwiches, ice cream)
3. Dispensed bulk Non-Time Temperature Control for Safety food (e.g.,
popcorn, roasted nuts, frozen lemonade)
4. Pre-cooked, low-risk Time Temperature Control for Safety food (e.g., hot
dogs, precooked sandwiches)
5. Requirements:
a. Adequate cold holding if Time Temperature Control for Safety food
b. No commissary needed
c. No hand sink required
B. MFE Type 2
1. Time Temperature Control for Safety food for same day service (e.g.,
hamburgers, grilled sandwiches)
2. Reheating commercially-processed Time Temperature Control for Safety
food (e.g., reheating canned soups)
3. Shellfish shucking
4. Requirements:

a. Adequate cold holding
b. Adequate cooking and hot holding equipment
c. Hand sink
d. Three (3) bay sink
e. Manager certified in food safety as required under Part 2 of this
Subchapter
f. Purchase food daily or need commissary for food storage
g. Tags for shellfish
C. MFE Type 3
1. Complex Time Temperature Control for Safety food that includes
advanced preparation and/or cooling (e.g., chowders, meatballs)
2. Requirements:
a. Adequate cold holding
b. Adequate cooking and hot holding equipment
c. Hand sink
d. Three (3) bay sink
e. Manager certified in food safety as required under Part 2 of this
Subchapter
f. Commissary for food preparation and/or storage
1.8.2 Food Operation Limitation
A. RIDOH may limit and/or modify the nature of the food service operation and/or
the type of food served by a mobile food establishment to protect the health and
safety of the public. Mobile food establishment operations may be limited
regarding types of food and methods of preparation.
1.8.3 Mobile Food Establishment Vendor Requirements
A. Plan Review
1. Any person desiring to operate any Mobile Food Establishment shall
submit structural and operating plans.

a. The structural plan should include the materials and layout of the
mobile food establishment, dimensions, mechanical schematics,
plumbing, equipment and the finish schedule.
b. Standard operating procedures shall include menu, methods of
preparation and temperature control, food and water sources,
employee health and hygiene and staff training.
1.8.4 Application Requirements
A. An applicant shall submit an application for a permit at least thirty (30) days in
advance.
B. An applicant shall pay the required fee for mobile food establishment license.
C. An applicant shall provide:
1. Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) of the vehicle used for the mobile food
establishment;
2. The license plate number and State of issuance of the vehicle used for the
mobile unit;
3. The menu and methods of preparation;
4. A signed agreement with a licensed commissary when applicable
D. Unapproved license applications may be returned to the applicant with
information regarding the reason(s) for not approving the license.
E. The following mobile food establishments may be exempt from obtaining a
permit:
1. Food which is sold, offered, displayed for sale, or served at the
establishment does not constitute a potential or actual hazard to the public
health. Exemptions include, but are not limited to:
a. Commercially bottled or canned beverages, including water, that do
not require refrigeration and are served from the sealed, original,
properly-labeled container without addition of ice or other regulated
product.
b. Sealed, commercially packaged food not requiring time
temperature control from an approved source with proper labeling
including, but not limited to, candy bars and other similar food.
1.8.5 Approval Procedure

A. RIDOH shall conduct an inspection of the mobile food establishment and
approve or reject the pending license based on adherence to the operational plan
that was previously submitted.
B. RIDOH shall record the findings on an inspection report and furnish the original
to the mobile food establishment.
C. The mobile food establishment shall ensure that all documented violations are
corrected as specified on the health inspection report.
D. Any changes in the operation including the commissary, menu and mobile food
establishment must be approved by the RIDOH.
1.8.6 General Requirements
A. Supervision
1. Each mobile food establishment shall have a designated person in charge
responsible for knowledge of, and compliance with, this Part. Such person
shall be on-site and accessible during all hours of operation of the mobile
food establishment. Facilities without such person in charge shall not be
approved to open or operate.
2. Except for § 1.8.6(A)(3) of this Part, the mobile food establishment shall
have a manager certified in food safety as specified in Part 2 of this
Subchapter.
3. As specified in this Part, mobile food establishments that serve only
commercially pre-packaged foods, beverages and commercially pre-
cooked potentially hazardous foods requiring no manual handling and/or
when only cold foods are prepared and there is no modified atmospheric
packaging, a manager certified in food safety may not be required.
B. Food Preparation
1. All food handling and preparation shall take place within the licensed
mobile food establishment unless prepared at an approved commissary.
2. Food employees shall eliminate bare hand contact with ready-to-eat food
by suitable means including but not limited to deli paper, spatulas, tongs,
single-use nonlatex gloves, or dispensing equipment.
3. Food employees shall minimize hand and arm contact with exposed food
that is not in ready to eat form.
4. Hands shall be washed before donning gloves for working with food and
after removing gloves when handling raw animal products.

5. Food employees of a mobile food establishment shall not use a pair of
gloves intended for a single use for more than one (1) purpose and shall
discard the gloves after they are damaged or soiled, or after the process
of preparing food has been interrupted.
C. Physical Structure
1. The interior walls and ceiling of the mobile food establishment shall be
durable, smooth, and easily cleanable. Floors shall be constructed of
nonabsorbent, durable material. A floor covering such as carpeting or
similar material may not be installed in food preparation areas.
2. The exterior structure of the mobile food establishment shall effectively
protect the interior from the weather and the entry of insects, rodents and
other animals.
3. A mobile food establishment shall not be used for living or sleeping
quarters.
4. The mobile food establishment shall be maintained in good repair.
5. The mobile food establishment shall be kept clean and free of food debris,
grease and other dirt.
6. The light intensity shall be sufficient for food preparation.
7. Adequate ventilation shall be provided to keep the vehicle free of food
debris, grease and other dirt.
8. The water tank of the mobile food establishment shall meet the
requirements specified within this Part.
9. Sewage and liquid waste shall be removed from a mobile food
establishment at an approved commissary or by a sewage transport
vehicle.
D. Restroom Facilities
1. A toilet facility on a mobile food establishment shall be fully enclosed with
a tight-fitting self-closing door.
2. The toilet facility shall be clean and in good repair.
3. The toilet facility shall have toilet paper and a hand sink with water, soap
and paper towels.
4. A mobile food establishment that does not have toilet facilities and that
does business at a location for more than sixty (60) minutes shall have

access to a toilet room located within two hundred feet (200’) of the
vehicle.
1.9 Supplemental Regulations for Temporary Food Establishment
A. RIDOH may limit and/or modify the nature of the food service operation and/or
the type of food served at the temporary food establishment to protect the health
and safety of the public. Temporary food establishment operations may be
limited in terms of the number of individuals served, methods of preparation and
storage, the kinds of utensils used, or the type of food served.
1.9.1 Sponsor Requirements
A. The event sponsor shall complete the sponsor form thirty (30) days prior to the
event.
B. The event sponsor shall inform RIDOH of any changes or additions made after
the original application was reviewed.
C. The event sponsor shall notify temporary food establishments that will be
associated with the special event that they are required to make advance
application for a permit to operate.
D. The event sponsor shall ensure that unapproved temporary food establishments
do not operate at or during the special event.
1.9.2 Site Requirements
A. Temporary food establishments shall be constructed and located to minimize the
risk of food contamination from external sources including, but not limited to,
sewage, flooding, dust, insects and vermin.
B. Outdoor open food operations shall have overhead protection unless otherwise
specified by the local fire authority.
C. Temporary food establishments may not be closer than fifty feet (50’) from any
non-sewered toilets and/or animal pens. The fifty foot (50’) setback requirement
may be waived by RIDOH if public health concerns are not compromised.
1.9.3 Responsibilities of the Sponsor
A. The event sponsor shall be responsible for all items as specified on the event
sponsor application which may include, but are not limited to the following:
1. The event coordinator shall ensure that there is an adequate potable
water supply for cooking purposes, handwashing, and cleaning and
sanitization of equipment, utensils and food contact surfaces.

2. A public water supply shall be protected with the appropriate backflow
prevention device. Non-food grade or garden hoses shall not be used for
delivery of water for human consumption or food preparation.
3. Handwashing sinks shall be located at all toileting areas utilized by food
handlers, including all non-sewered toilet areas.
a. The operator of a special event shall provide at least one (1) facility
for hand washing for each group of toilet facilities.
b. Handwashing sinks shall be adequately serviced, stocked and
maintained during the event with soap in a pump dispense and
single-use paper towels dispensed in a sanitary manner.
4. Adequate power shall be supplied by the event sponsor to those
temporary food establishments that require electrical or mechanical
means to hold food products at required temperatures. When mechanical
refrigeration is used, power shall be provided in advance to bring units
down to adequate temperatures.
5. When central refrigeration services for food vendors are provided, the
event sponsor shall ensure that equipment is capable of maintaining food
at required temperatures. When equipment is not maintaining food at
required temperatures, it shall be taken out of service and any
temperature abused food shall be discarded.
6. A minimum of twenty-foot (20’) candles of artificial light shall be provided
after dusk in all common areas.
7. Common warewashing facilities, if provided, shall be maintained as
specified in these Regulations, and drain into an approved sewage
disposal system.
8. The event sponsor shall ensure that an adequate number of toilet facilities
are provided for patron and participant use so as not to create a nuisance
or public health hazard.
a. When the number of sewered toilets is insufficient, non-sewered
toilets shall be provided.
b. All toilets shall be adequately serviced, stocked with dispenser-held
toilet tissue, and maintained during the event.
9. Hoses connected to potable water sources shall meet the requirements as
specified in this Part and § 5-3 of the Code.
10. The event coordinator shall ensure that all wastewater generated at an
event is discharged as specified in this Part.

11. The event coordinator shall ensure proper disposal of garbage.
a. The event coordinator shall provide for the removal of any solid
waste scattered on the event premises as a result of event
activities, including the removal of such waste during and at the
conclusion of the event. Trash receptacles shall be emptied as
often as necessary to prevent excessive accumulation of solid
waste so as not to create a public health nuisance.
12. Animal attractions shall not create nuisance, odors, or fly problems that
impact food service operations. RIDOH may impose additional restrictions
and requirements to ensure the health of the public.
1.9.4 Application Requirements
A. A person desiring to operate any temporary food establishment shall submit a
written application for a permit in accordance with this Part.
1. An applicant shall submit an application for a permit at least thirty (30)
days in advance.
2. An applicant shall pay the required fee for the temporary event license.
3. An applicant should complete the temporary event form and submit it with
the written application for a temporary event license.
4. If approved by RIDOH, the temporary food establishment will receive a
license.
5. Unapproved license applications will be returned to the applicant with
information regarding the reason(s) for not approving the license.
6. The following food establishments may be exempt from obtaining a permit:
a. A religious, charitable or other non-profit organization that sells food
occasionally to raise money, provided the sale occurs on the
premises of the organization. If the sale is to occur off the premises
of the organization, a permit shall be required.
b. Food which is sold, offered, displayed for sale or served at the
establishment does not constitute a potential or actual hazard to the
public health. Exemptions include but are not limited to:
(1) Commercially bottled or canned beverages, including water,
that do not require refrigeration, and are served from the
sealed, original, properly-labeled container without addition
of ice or other regulated product.

(2) Sealed, commercially packaged food not requiring time
temperature control from an approved source with proper
labeling including, but not limited to, candy bars and other
similar food.
1.9.5 Approval Procedure
A. RIDOH shall conduct an inspection of the temporary food establishment at the
special event and approve or reject the license.
B. RIDOH shall record the findings on an inspection report and furnish the original
to the temporary food establishment.
C. The temporary food establishment shall ensure that all documented violations
are corrected as specified on the health inspection report.
1.9.6 General Requirements
A. Each temporary food establishment shall have a designated person in charge
responsible for knowledge of, and compliance with, this Part. Such person shall
be on-site and accessible during all hours of operation of the temporary food
establishment. Facilities without such person in charge shall not be approved to
open or operate.
B. When indicated by menu and/or food preparation, the temporary food
establishment may need a manager certified in food safety as specified in Part 2
of this Subchapter.
1.10 Farm Home Food Manufacturers
A. All farm home food manufacturers must comply with R.I. Gen. Laws § 21-27-6.1,
Farm Home Food Manufacture.
1.11 Cottage Food Manufacturers
A. All cottage food manufacturers must comply with R.I. Gen. Laws § 21-27-6.2,
Cottage Food Manufacture.
1.12 Enforcement
1.12.1 Denial, Suspension, Revocation of Registration
A. RIDOH is authorized to deny, suspend or revoke the registration of a food
establishment for just cause which includes, but is not limited to:
1. Failure to comply with this Part; and

2. Failure to comply with any Federal, State, or local laws and Regulations
relating to food and/or food establishments.
B. Whenever an action shall be proposed to deny, suspend, or revoke the
registration of a food business, RIDOH shall notify the food business by certified
mail, setting forth the reasons for the proposed action, and the applicant or
licensee shall be given an opportunity for a prompt and fair hearing in
accordance with R.I. Gen. Laws § 42-35-9.
1. If RIDOH finds that public health, safety or welfare imperatively requires
emergency action and incorporates a finding to that effect in its order,
RIDOH may order summary suspension of registration or curtailment of
activities pending proceedings for revocation or other action in accordance
with R.I. Gen. Laws §§ 23-1-21 and 42-35-14(c).
1.12.2 Other Enforcement Actions
A. RIDOH is empowered to institute such measures authorized by law which it
deems appropriate to secure compliance with the provisions of this Part. Any
such action shall include notice and opportunity for a hearing, provided; however,
if an imminent health hazard exists the Director may issue an immediate
compliance order requiring immediate action pursuant to the authority contained
in R.I. Gen. Laws § 23-1-21.
1.12.3 Hearings and Reviews
A. All hearings and reviews required under the provisions of R.I. Gen. Laws Chapter
21-31 and/or R.I. Gen. Laws Chapter 23-1 and this Part shall be held in
accordance with the provisions of Part 10-05-4 of this Title.

(cid:127)(cid:12)(cid:127)(cid:127)
Food Code
U.S. Food and Drug Administration
B R A
E T
L I
N
E
G
C
T
S
H
R
I
A
R
E
T Y Y
(cid:31)(cid:30)(cid:29)(cid:30)(cid:28)(cid:22)(cid:7)(cid:9)(cid:24)(cid:21)(cid:14)(cid:17)(cid:7)(cid:23)(cid:14)(cid:28)(cid:26)(cid:143)(cid:28)(cid:144)(cid:7)(cid:24)(cid:6)(cid:14)(cid:157)(cid:28)(cid:24)(cid:23)(cid:25)(cid:28)(cid:144)(cid:20)(cid:17)(cid:24)(cid:23)(cid:28)(cid:29)(cid:7)(cid:21)(cid:8)(cid:16) (cid:7)(cid:15)
(cid:31)(cid:30)(cid:29)(cid:30)(cid:28)(cid:27)(cid:26)(cid:26)(cid:25)(cid:28)(cid:24)(cid:23)(cid:25)(cid:28)(cid:22)(cid:21)(cid:20)(cid:19)(cid:28)(cid:18)(cid:25)(cid:17)(cid:16)(cid:23)(cid:16)(cid:15)(cid:14)(cid:21)(cid:24)(cid:14)(cid:16)(cid:26)(cid:23)(cid:28)
(cid:31)(cid:30)(cid:29)(cid:30)(cid:28)(cid:5)(cid:20) (cid:6)(cid:16) (cid:28)(cid:144)(cid:7)(cid:24)(cid:6)(cid:14)(cid:157)(cid:28)(cid:29)(cid:7)(cid:21)(cid:8)(cid:16) (cid:7)(cid:28)
(cid:10)(cid:26)(cid:6)(cid:6)(cid:7)(cid:19)(cid:7)(cid:28)(cid:5)(cid:24)(cid:21)(cid:4)(cid:3)(cid:28)(cid:2)(cid:22)(cid:28)(cid:127)(cid:12)(cid:129)(cid:141)(cid:12)

Food Code
2022 Health Recommendations of the
United States Public Service
Food and Drug Administration
The Food Code is a model for safeguarding public health and ensuring food is
unadulterated and honestly presented when offered to the consumer. It represents
FDA's best advice for a uniform system of provisions that address the safety and
protection of food offered at retail and in food service.
This model is offered for adoption by local, state, and federal governmental jurisdictions
for administration by the various departments, agencies, bureaus, divisions, and other
units within each jurisdiction that have been delegated compliance responsibilities for
food service, retail food stores, or food vending operations. Alternatives that offer an
equivalent level of public health protection to ensure that food at retail and foodservice
is safe are recognized in this model.
i

This is a print-ready version that can be printed as a single file.
ii

FDA Food Code 2022 Previous Editions of Code
Previous Editions of Code
Recommended by
The United States Public Health Service
for
Regulating Operations Providing Food Directly to the Consumer
1934 Restaurant Sanitation Regulations,
Proposed by the U.S. Public Health Service in cooperation with the Conference of State and
Territorial Health Officers and the National Restaurant Code Authority
1935 An Ordinance Regulating Food and Drink Establishments
(Recommended by U.S. Public Health Service), December 1935, Mimeographed
1938 Ordinance and Code Regulating Eating and Drinking Establishments, Recommended
by the U.S. Public Health Service, March 1938, Mimeographed
1940 Ordinance and Code Regulating Eating and Drinking Establishments, Recommended
by the U.S. Public Health Service, June 1940, Mimeographed
1943 Ordinance and Code Regulating Eating and Drinking Establishments, Recommended
by the United States Public Health Service, 1943, FSA, Public Health Bulletin No. 280
(Republished in 1955, DHEW, PHS Publication No. 37)
1957 The Vending of Foods and Beverages - A Sanitation Ordinance and Code, 1957
Recommendations of the Public Health Service, DHEW, PHS Publication No. 546
1962 Food Service Sanitation Manual Including A Model Food Service Sanitation Ordinance
and Code, 1962 Recommendations of the Public Health Service, DHEW, PHS
Publication No. 934
1965 The Vending of Food and Beverages - A Sanitation Ordinance and Code, 1965
Recommendations of the Public Health Service, DHEW, PHS Publication No. 546
1976 Food Service Sanitation Manual Including A Model Food Service Sanitation Ordinance,
1976 Recommendations of the Food and Drug Administration, DHEW/PHS/FDA, DHEW
Publication No. (FDA) 78-2091
1978 The Vending of Food and Beverages Including A Model Sanitation Ordinance, 1978
Recommendations of the Food and Drug Administration, DHEW/PHS/FDA, DHEW
Publication No. (FDA) 78-2091
1982 Retail Food Store Sanitation Code, 1982 Recommendations of the Association of Food
and Drug Officials and U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Public Health
Service, Food and Drug Administration, AFDO/HHS Publication
1993 Food Code, 1993 Recommendations of the United States Public Health Service, Food and
Drug Administration, National Technical Information Service Publication PB94-113941
1995 Food Code, 1995 Recommendations of the United States Public Health Service, Food and
Drug Administration, National Technical Information Service Publication PB95-265492
iii

FDA Food Code 2022 Previous Editions of Code
1997 Food Code, 1997 Recommendations of the United States Public Health Service, Food and
Drug Administration, National Technical Information Service Publication PB97-133656
1999 Food Code, 1999 Recommendations of the United States Public Health Service, Food and
Drug Administration, National Technical Information Service Publication PB99-115925
2001 Food Code, 2001 Recommendations of the United States Public Health Service, Food and
Drug Administration, National Technical Information Service Publication PB2002-100819
2003 Supplement to the 2001 Food Code, National Technical Information Service Publication
PB2003-106843
2005 Food Code, 2005 Recommendations of the United States Public Health Service, Food and
Drug Administration, National Technical Information Service Publication PB2005-102200
2007 Supplement to the 2005 Food Code, National Technical Information Service Publication
PB2007-112622
2009 Food Code, 2009 Recommendations of the United States Public Health Service, Food and
Drug Administration, National Technical Information Service Publication PB2009-112613
2011 Supplement to the 2009 Food Code, National Technical Information Service Publication
PB2011-114303
2013 Food Code, 2013 Recommendations of the United States Public Health Service, Food and
Drug Administration, National Technical Information Service Publication PB2013-110462
2015 Supplement to the 2013 Food Code, National Technical Information Service Publication
PB2015-104921
2017 Food Code, 2017 Recommendations of the United States Public Health Service, Food and
Drug Administration, HHS Program Support Center, Publication number IFS17
2019 Supplement to the 2017 Food Code, This document is available via the internet in PDF at the
following link: www.fda.gov/foodcode
iv

FDA Food Code 2022 Preface
Preface
1. Foodborne Illness Estimates, Risk Factors, and Interventions
Foodborne illness in the United States is a major cause of personal distress,
preventable illness and death, and avoidable economic burden. Scallan et al. (2011a,b)
estimated that foodborne diseases cause approximately 48 million illnesses, 128,000
hospitalizations, and 3,000 deaths in the United States each year. The occurrence of
approximately 1,000 reported disease outbreaks (local, regional, and national) each
year highlights the challenges of preventing these infections.
Most foodborne illnesses occur in persons who are not part of recognized outbreaks.
For many victims, foodborne illness results only in discomfort or lost time from the job.
For some, especially preschool age children, older adults in health care facilities, and
those with impaired immune systems, foodborne illness is more serious and may be life
threatening.
The annual cost of foodborne illness in terms of pain and suffering, reduced
productivity, and medical costs are estimated to be $10 - $83 billion. As stated by
Meade et. al., the nature of food and foodborne illness has changed dramatically in the
United States over the last century. While technological advances such as
pasteurization and proper canning have all but eliminated some disease, new causes of
foodborne illness have been identified. Surveillance of foodborne illness is complicated
by several factors. The first is underreporting. Although foodborne illnesses can be
severe or even fatal, milder cases are often not detected through routine surveillance.
Second, many pathogens transmitted through food are also spread through water or
from person to person, thus obscuring the role of foodborne transmission. Finally,
pathogens or agents that have not yet been identified and thus cannot be diagnosed
cause some proportion of foodborne illness.
Epidemiological outbreak data repeatedly identify five major risk factors related to
employee behaviors and preparation practices in retail and food service establishments
as contributing to foodborne illness:
• Improper holding temperatures,
• Inadequate cooking, such as undercooking raw shell eggs,
• Contaminated equipment,
• Food from unsafe sources, and
• Poor personal hygiene
The Food Code addresses controls for risk factors and further establishes 5 key public
health interventions to protect consumer health. Specifically, these interventions are
demonstration of knowledge, employee health controls, controlling hands as a vehicle of
contamination, time and temperature parameters for controlling pathogens, and the
v

FDA Food Code 2022 Preface
consumer advisory. The first two interventions are found in Chapter 2 and the last three
in Chapter 3.
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) endeavors to assist the approximately 75
state and territorial agencies and more than 3,000 local departments that assume
primary responsibility for preventing foodborne illness and for licensing and inspecting
establishments within the retail segment of the food industry. This industry segment
consists of more than one million establishments and employs a work force of over 16
million.
2. PHS Model Codes History, Purpose, and Authority
(A) History and Purpose
U.S. Public Health Service (PHS) activities in food protection began at the turn of the
20th century with studies on the role of milk in the spread of disease. These studies led
to the conclusion that effective disease prevention requires the application of
comprehensive food sanitation measures from production to consumption. Additional
studies identified and evaluated measures which would most effectively control disease,
including work which led to improved processes for pasteurization.
Next, model codes were developed to assist state and local governments in initiating
and maintaining effective programs for prevention of foodborne illness. The first of
these, which is now titled Grade A Pasteurized Milk Ordinance – Recommendations of
the PHS/FDA, was initially published in 1924. Subsequently, the PHS published
recommended model food codes that address the various components of the retail
segment of the food industry. These code editions are listed chronologically on pp. iii
and iv. Through the years all states, hundreds of local jurisdictions, and many federal
agencies have adopted some edition of model food codes recommended by the PHS.
Today, FDA's purpose in maintaining an updated model food code is to assist food
control jurisdictions at all levels of government by providing them with a scientifically
sound technical and legal basis for regulating the retail segment of the food industry.
The retail segment includes those establishments or locations in the food distribution
chain where the consumer takes possession of the food.
The model Food Code is neither federal law nor federal regulation and is not
preemptive. Rather, it represents FDA's best advice for a uniform system of regulation
to ensure that food at retail is safe and properly protected and presented. Although not
federal requirements (until adopted by federal bodies for use within federal
jurisdictions), the model Food Code provisions are designed to be consistent with
federal food laws and regulations and are written for ease of legal adoption at all levels
of government. A list of jurisdictions that have reported to FDA their status in adopting
the Food Code is available on the FDA CFSAN Web Page at:
http://www.fda.gov/RetailFoodProtection. The list is self-reported, and FDA has not yet
evaluated whether all the adopted codes are equivalent to the model Food Code.
Providing model food codes and model code interpretations and opinions is the
mechanism through which FDA, as a lead federal food control agency, promotes
vi

FDA Food Code 2022 Preface
uniform implementation of national food regulatory policy among the several thousand
federal, state, and local agencies and tribes that have primary responsibility for the
regulation or oversight of retail level food operations.
(B) Authority
PHS authority for assisting state and local governments is derived from the Public
Health Service Act [42 USC 243]. Section 311(a) states in part:
"... The Secretary shall ... assist states and their political subdivisions in the
prevention and suppression of communicable diseases, and with respect to other
public health matters, shall cooperate with and aid state and local authorities in
the enforcement of their ... health regulations and shall advise the several states
on matters relating to the preservation and improvement of the public health."
Responsibility for carrying out the provisions of the Act relative to food protection was
delegated within the PHS to the Commissioner of Food and Drugs in 1968 [21 CFR
5.10(a)(2) and (3)].
Under authority of the Economy Act, June 30, 1932, as amended [31 USC 1535], FDA
assists federal agencies.
Assistance provided to local, state, and federal governmental bodies is also based on
FDA's authorities and responsibilities under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
[21 USC 301].
3. Public Health and Consumer Expectations
It is a shared responsibility of the food industry and the government to ensure that food
provided to the consumer is safe and does not become a vehicle in a disease outbreak
or in the transmission of communicable disease. This shared responsibility extends to
ensuring that consumer expectations are met, and that food is unadulterated, prepared
in a clean environment, and honestly presented.
Under FDA’s 2018 Mission Statement the agency is responsible for: Protecting the
public health by assuring the safety of our nation’s food supply…and for advancing the
public health by helping the public get accurate, science-based information they need
about foods to maintain and improve their health.
Accordingly, the provisions of the Food Code provide a system of prevention and
overlapping safeguards designed to minimize foodborne illness; ensure employee
health, industry manager knowledge, safe food, nontoxic and cleanable equipment, and
acceptable levels of sanitation on food establishment premises; and promote fair
dealings with the consumer.
4. Advantage of Uniform Standards
The advantages of well-written, scientifically sound, and up-to-date model codes have
long been recognized by industry and government officials.
vii

FDA Food Code 2022 Preface
Industry conformance with acceptable procedures and practices is far more likely where
regulatory officials "speak with one voice" about what is required to protect the public
health, why it is important, and which alternatives for compliance may be accepted.
Model codes provide a guide for use in establishing what is required. They are useful to
business in that they provide accepted standards that can be applied in training and
quality assurance programs. They are helpful to local, state, and federal governmental
bodies that are developing or updating their own codes.
The model Food Code provides guidance on food safety, sanitation, and fair dealing
that can be uniformly adopted for the retail segment of the food industry. The document
is the cumulative result of the efforts and recommendations of many contributing
individuals, agencies, and organizations with years of experience using earlier model
code editions. It embraces the concept that our quality of life, state of health, and the
public welfare are directly affected by how we collectively provide and protect our food.
The model Food Code provisions are consistent with, and where appropriate
incorporate, federal performance standards for the same products and processes.
Federal performance standards in effect define public food safety expectations for the
product, usually in terms of lethality to a pathogenic microorganism of particular
concern. Use of performance standards as the measure of regulatory compliance
means establishments are free to use innovative approaches in producing safe
products, in lieu of adherence to traditional processing approaches, such as specified
cooking times and temperatures, that achieve the same end. Federally inspected
establishments demonstrate compliance with performance standards by showing that
their process adheres to an appropriately designed, validated HACCP plan.
Retail processors may be given the same opportunity as federally-regulated
establishments to use innovative techniques in the production of safe foods. Retail
establishments may apply to the regulatory authority for a variance to use a specific
federal food safety performance standard for a product or a process in lieu of
compliance with otherwise applicable specifications in the Food Code. However, to
show compliance with the federal performance standard, the retail processor must, like
a federally inspected establishment, show that processing controls are in place to
ensure that the standard is being met. Thus, a request for a variance based on a federal
performance standard must be supported by a validated HACCP plan with record
keeping and documented verification being made available to the regulatory authority.
5. Modifications and Improvements in This Edition
The revisions contained in this edition reflect changes, additions, deletions, and format
modifications listed in the Supplement to the 2017 FDA Food Code and
recommendations developed during the 2020 Biennial meeting of the Conference for
Food Protection (held in August 2021). The revisions also reflect input provided by
those who have been intimately involved with studying, teaching, and using the earlier
editions. Most of these enhancements involve added clarification or new information.
Some reflect evolving regulatory policy contained in new or revised federal regulations.
viii

FDA Food Code 2022 Preface
Several of the Tables, Charts, and images were checked throughout the Code to ensure
meeting web accessibility requirements under Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of
1973 (29 U.S.C. 794d). Section 508 mandates that all federal agencies eliminate the
barriers in accessing electronic and information technology. The law helps to ensure
that members of the public with disabilities can access government information and
services.
The needed clarifications and missing Code provisions were identified by FDA and
others during standardization and certification activities, State Training Team courses,
regional food protection seminars, the deliberations of food equipment standards
organizations, and the verbal and written requests for clarification received by FDA field
and headquarters components.
Changes in provisions related to federal laws and regulations administered by other
federal agencies such as the United States Department of Agriculture were jointly
developed with those agencies.
A Summary of Changes is provided at the end of the Food Code. General
enhancements include:
1) Added and improved definitions that are more precise and more consistent with
terminology and definitions found in related laws and regulations;
2) Modified provisions to make them more consistent with national requirements
and standards administered by other federal agencies and international bodies;
more flexible without compromising public health; and more internally consistent
with other Food Code provisions;
3) Clarified other provisions regarding their intent, thereby reducing confusion and
the potential for inconsistent application;
4) Improved user aids contained in the Annexes such as added references and
updated public health reasons, model forms, guides, and lists; and
5) Expanded the Index with additional terms to assist a broader base of users in
finding topics of interest.
Some of the significant changes to the 2022 Food Code include:
1) Adding sesame as the ninth (9th) major food allergen;
2) Requiring written notification to consumers of major food allergens as
ingredients in unpackaged food and labeling of major food allergens in bulk food
that is available for consumer self-dispensing;
3) Establishing new criteria for the donation of food to aid in public health
protection;
4) Revising the definition of intact meat including enhancements to clarify
time/temperature cooking requirements; and
5) Creating new requirements for the allowance of pet dogs in outdoor dining
spaces.
ix

FDA Food Code 2022 Preface
6. Discussion of the Code as a HACCP Model and the Intention to Incorporate
Other Models
It is important to note that preapproval of HACCP plans for food establishments
operating pursuant to a variance is provided for under the Food Code, but such a plan
preapproval is not a part of another HACCP regulatory model, the Fish and Fishery
Products regulation 21 CFR 123, effective December 18, 1997. FDA published the Fish
and Fisheries Hazards and Controls Guidance Fourth Edition April 2011, with the most
recent edition issued in June 2022. Additionally, there are differences between the two
models in the required content of the HACCP plan. For example, the HACCP plans
requested by the Food Code must include flow diagrams, product formulations, training
plans, and a corrective action plan. Flow diagrams and product formulations are
suggested but not mandated components of the Fish and Fishery Products regulation.
These differences are necessitated by differences in the nature of the regulations and
the regulatory structure set up to enforce them. HACCP plans developed under the
Food Code variance process are provided to the regulatory authority to enable the
regulatory authority to assess whether the establishment has designed a system of
controls sufficient to ensure the safety of the product. The plans will be reviewed outside
the food establishment and, in most cases, in the absence of any historical performance
information for the product at that establishment. Therefore, the plan must contain
sufficient detail to allow the regulator to fully understand the operations and the intended
controls. Products requiring a variance are those which are deemed to be
time/temperature control for safety food and for which retail production would otherwise
be prohibited.
To assist food establishments in applying HACCP principles at retail, FDA has issued a
document entitled: Managing Food Safety: A HACCP Principles Guide for Operators of
Food Service, Retail Food Stores, and Other Food Establishments at the Retail Level.
This document is available from FDA and can be found on the FDA Web Page at:
http://www.fda.gov/RetailFoodProtection.
Under the Fish and Fishery Products regulation, every seafood processor is required to
perform a hazard analysis, and must have and implement a written HACCP Plan
whenever a hazard analysis reveals a food safety hazard that is reasonably likely to
occur. HACCP plans developed pursuant to the Fish and Fishery Products regulation
are for all products in the class and are not for products for which production is
presently prohibited. Plans will be reviewed on site, with records available to judge,
among other things, the adequacy of past corrective actions.
It is intended that the Food Code will be amended to incorporate federal HACCP
regulations and guidelines by inclusion in the text of the Food Code, by reference, or
through the issuance of interpretations. This will provide alternatives to the preapproval
of HACCP plans, such as simplified HACCP plans in line with the Fish and Fishery
Products model, if the product is produced under a HACCP plan developed in
conformance with such regulation or guideline. In so doing, the need for preapproved
plans under the more intensive regimen of the Food Code will be significantly reduced.
x

FDA Food Code 2022 Preface
HACCP plans are key to the use of performance standards as measures of regulatory
compliance. Performance standards issued by the Food Safety and Inspection Service
are applicable to a broad range of meat, poultry, and egg products. Federal
performance standards are acceptable, equivalent alternatives to the command-and-
control provisions that now provide specific times and temperatures for processing
various products. Federal performance standards may be used to determine the safety
of a product or process under the Food Code if authorized under a variance granted in
accord with the Code’s variance provisions, and demonstrated by adherence to a
validated HACCP plan, consistent with the Code’s HACCP provisions.
7. Information to Assist the User
Many of the improvements contained in the model Food Code, as listed under item 5 of
this Preface, are provided to make the document easier to use. Other characteristics of
the new edition, if they are understood by the user, make it easier to follow and apply.
These include structure, nomenclature, and methodology.
Food Code provisions address essentially four areas: personnel (Chapter 2), food
(Chapter 3), equipment/facilities/supplies (Chapters 4, 5, 6, 7), and compliance and
enforcement (Chapter 8). A new user will find it helpful to review the Table of Contents
together with the Code Reference Sheet (Annex 7, Guide 3-B) to quickly gain an
understanding of the scope and sequence of subjects included within these four areas.
The structural nomenclature of the document is as follows:
Chapter 9
Part 9-1
Subpart 9-101
Section (§) 9-101.11
Paragraph (¶) 9-101.11(A)
Subparagraph 9-101.11(A)(1)
Code provisions are either appropriate for citing and debiting on an inspection report or
they are not. Those not intended for citing/debiting are identified by the digits following
the decimal point in the numbering system. These “nondebitable” provisions fall into two
categories, those that end with two digits after the decimal point and the last digit is a
zero, e.g., § 1-201.10; and those that end with three digits after the decimal point and
the last 2 digits are zeros, e.g., § 8-805.100.
Two types of internal cross referencing are widely used throughout the Code to
eliminate the need for restating provisions.
A. The first type of cross reference uses phrases that contain the word “under”, e.g.,
“as specified under … (followed by the relevant portion of the Code).” The
purpose of this type of cross reference is to:
1) Alert the reader to relevant information, and
2) Provide a system by which each violation is recorded under the one most
appropriate provision. This type of cross reference signals to the reader
xi

FDA Food Code 2022 Preface
the provision of the Code under which a certain violation is properly
cited/debited.
B. The second type of cross reference uses phrases that contain the word “in,” e.g.,
“as specified in... (followed by the relevant portion of the Code).” The purpose of
this type of cross reference is to:
1) Indicate the specific provisions of a separate document such as a federal
regulation that are being incorporated by reference in the requirement of
the Code, e.g., ¶ 3-201.11(C); or
2) Refer the reader to a nondebitable provision of the Code which provides
further information for consideration, such as provision for an exception or
for an allowance to comply via an alternative method.
For example, ¶ 3-201.16 (A) begins with “Except as specified in ¶ (B)…”
and ¶ (B) states the relevant exceptions to ¶ (A). Paragraph 3-201.11(E)
states in part, “… as specified in ¶ 3-401.11(C)” and ¶ 3-401.11(C)
provides for an allowance to serve or sell raw or undercooked, whole-
meat, intact beef steaks in a ready-to-eat form.
If you review the exception in ¶ 3-201.16(B) and the allowance in
¶ 3-401.11(C), you will see that exceptions and allowances often contain
conditions of compliance, i.e., conditions that must be met in order for the
exception or allowance to convey.
Based on the violation being cited, the substance of the text being referred to, and the
context in which the reference is made, users of the Code must infer the intent of the
cross reference. That is, the user must determine if the cross reference simply alerts the
user to additional information about the requirement or if the cross reference:
• Sends (via the word “under”) the citing/debiting to another Code provision;
or
• Incorporates (via the word “in”) the referenced requirements into the Code
provision
The Food Code presents requirements by principle rather than by subject. For example,
equipment requirements are presented under headings such as Materials, Design and
Construction, Numbers and Capacities, Location and Installation, and Maintenance and
Operation rather than by refrigerators, sinks, and thermometers. In this way, provisions
need be stated only once rather than repeated for each piece or category of equipment.
Where there are special requirements for certain equipment, the requirement is
delineated under the appropriate principle (e.g., Design and Construction) and listed
separately in the index.
Portions of some sections are written in italics. These provisions are not requirements
but are provided to convey relevant information about specific exceptions and
alternative means for compliance. Italics are pursuant to a preceding provision that
states a requirement, to which the italics offer an exception or another possibility.
xii

FDA Food Code 2022 Preface
Italicized sections usually involve the words “except for,” “may”, “need not” or “does not
apply.” See ¶ 3-202.18(D).
The former use of “critical” or “non-critical” has been changed in recognition of the need
to better identify risk-based controls within the Code’s provisions. Requirements
contained in the Food Code are presented as being in one of three categories of
importance: PRIORITY ITEM (i.e. a provision in this Code whose application contributes
directly to the elimination, prevention or reduction to an acceptable level, hazards
associated with foodborne illness or injury and there is no other provision that more
directly controls the hazard); PRIORITY FOUNDATION ITEM (i.e., a provision in this
Code whose application supports, facilitates or enables one or more PRIORITY
ITEMS); and, CORE ITEM (i.e., a provision in this Code that is not designated as a
PRIORITY ITEM or a PRIORITY FOUNDATION ITEM and that usually relates to
general sanitation, operational controls, sanitation standard operating procedures
(SSOPs), facilities or structures, equipment design, or general maintenance.
A “P” or “Pf” designation after a paragraph or subparagraph indicates that the provision
within that section is a PRIORITY ITEM or PRIORITY FOUNDATION ITEM. Any unmarked
provisions within a section are CORE ITEMS.
The following conventions are used in the Food Code. “shall” means the act is
imperative, i.e., “shall” constitutes a command. “may not” means absolute prohibition.
“May” is permissive and means the act is allowed. The term “means” is followed by a
declared fact.
Defined words and terms are in “small caps” in the text of the Food Code chapters to
alert the reader to the fact that there is a specific meaning assigned to those words and
terms and that the meaning of a provision is to be interpreted in the defined context. A
concerted effort was also made to place in “small caps” all forms and combinations of
those defined words and terms that were intended to carry the weight of the definition.
The annexes located at the back of the document can provide tremendous assistance
to those charged with applying Food Code provisions. No reference is made in the text
of a provision to the annexes which support its requirements. This is necessary in order
to keep future laws or other requirements based on the model Food Code "clean."
However, the annexes are provided specifically to assist the regulatory authority apply
the provisions uniformly and effectively.
It is, therefore, important for users to preview the subject and essence of each of the
annexes before using the document. Some of the annexes (e.g., References, Public
Health Reasons) are structured to present the information by the specific Food Code
item number to which they apply. Other annexes provide information and materials
intended to be helpful to the user such as model forms that can be used, a delineation
of the principles of HACCP, guidelines for establishment inspection, and criteria for
certain food processes for use in evaluating proposed HACCP plans.
xiii

FDA Food Code 2022 Preface
8. Code Adoption/Certified Copies
The model Food Code is provided for use by food regulatory jurisdictions at all levels of
government. At the state and local levels, the model may be:
(A) Enacted into statute as an act of the state legislative body;
(B) Promulgated as a regulation, if the state legislative body has delegated rule-
making authority to a governmental administrative agency; or
(C) Adopted as an ordinance, if the local legislative body has been delegated rule-
making authority or regulatory powers.
Typically, code adoption bodies publish a notice of their intent to adopt a code, make
copies available for public inspection, and provide an opportunity for public input prior to
adoption. This is usually done in one of two ways.
The recommended method is the "short form" or "adoption by reference" approach
where a simple statement is published stating that certified copies of the proposed code
are on file for public review. This approach may be used by governmental bodies
located in states that have enabling laws authorizing the adoption of codes by
reference. An advantage to this approach is a substantial reduction in the cost of
publishing and printing.
Certified copies of the Food Code for use in adopting the model by reference are
available through the FDA Retail Food Protection Staff, HFS-320, 5001 Campus Drive,
College Park, MD 20740-3835. Refer to item 2(A) of this Preface to access a listing of
jurisdictions’ adoptions.
The alternative method is the "long form" or "section-by-section" approach where the
proposed code is published in its entirety. Both methods of adoption allow for the
modification of specific provisions to accommodate existing law, administrative
procedure, or regulatory policy. Annex 7 contains model adoption forms for use by
governmental bodies who wish to use either of these methods.
9. The Code Revision Process
(A) Food Code Revision and Publication Cycles
FDA is issuing a new edition of the Food Code every 4 years. During the 4-year span of
time between editions, FDA may issue supplements to an existing edition. Each new
edition will incorporate the changes made in the supplement as well as any new
revisions.
A change in the Code’s release cycle occurred ahead of the planned 2021 Food Code
release. The FDA values the input of all retail food stakeholder groups through the
Conference for Food Protection (CFP) and with the occurrence of the COVID-19
pandemic, the CFP changed to an odd-year meeting cycle. With this change, and to
allow for stakeholder input into the Code, FDA adjusted the Food Code release cycle to
be on an even-year cycle going forward. This 2022 full edition reflects that change.
xiv

FDA Food Code 2022 Preface
(B) Submission of Food Code Change Suggestions
FDA will continue to receive concerns and recommendations for modification of the
Food Code from any individual or organization.
Given the purpose of the document as discussed in item 2 of this Preface, the Agency
will be especially interested in addressing problems identified by those in government
and industry who are responsible for implementing the Food Code. FDA will also be
especially responsive to those needed policy and technical changes raised by an
organization that uses a democratic process for addressing problems and concerns.
Included are organizations that provide a process that encourages representative
participation in deliberations by government, industry, and academic and consumer
interests, followed by public health ratification such as a state-by-state vote by officially
designated delegates. The Conference for Food Protection (retail food issues), the
National Conference on Interstate Milk Shipments (milk and dairy products issues), and
the Interstate Shellfish Sanitation Conference (molluscan shellfish issues) are examples
of such organizations. These organizations receive problems submitted by any
interested individual, but specify the forms on which the issues must be detailed and
provide specific time frames during which they may be submitted.
FDA encourages interested individuals to consider raising issues and suggesting
solutions involving the federal-state cooperative programs based on FDA's model codes
through these organizations.
10. Acknowledgments
Many individuals devoted considerable time and effort in addressing concerns and
developing recommendations that are now reflected in the Food Code. These
individuals represent a wide diversity of regulators, educators, industry leaders, and
consumer representatives acting through their agencies, companies, professional
groups, or trade organizations. It is only through the dedicated efforts and contributions
of experienced professionals that a scientifically sound, well focused, and up-to-date
model code is possible. FDA acknowledges with gratitude the substantial assistance of
those who contributed to public health and food safety in the development of the Food
Code.
xv

This page is intentionally left blank.
xvi

FDA Food Code 2022 Contents
Contents
Previous Editions of Code ........................................................................................... iii
Preface ........................................................................................................................... v
1. Foodborne Illness Estimates, Risk Factors, and Interventions ............................... v
2. PHS Model Codes History, Purpose, and Authority ................................................ vi
3. Public Health and Consumer Expectations ............................................................ vii
4. Advantage of Uniform Standards ........................................................................... vii
5. Modifications and Improvements in This Edition ................................................... viii
6. Discussion of the Code as a HACCP Model and the Intention to Incorporate Other
Models .................................................................................................................... x
7. Information to Assist the User ................................................................................. xi
8. Code Adoption/Certified Copies ........................................................................... xiv
9. The Code Revision Process ................................................................................. xiv
10. Acknowledgments ............................................................................................... xv
Contents ..................................................................................................................... xvii
Chapter 1. Purpose and Definitions ............................................................................. 1
1-1 Title, Intent, Scope................................................................................................. 1
1-101 Title............................................................................................................. 1
1-102 Intent .......................................................................................................... 1
1-103 Scope ......................................................................................................... 1
1-2 Definitions .............................................................................................................. 2
1-201 Applicability and Terms Defined ................................................................. 2
Chapter 2. Management and Personnel .................................................................... 23
2-1 Supervision .......................................................................................................... 23
2-101 Responsibility ........................................................................................... 23
2-102 Knowledge ................................................................................................ 24
2-103 Duties ....................................................................................................... 26
2-2 Employee Health ................................................................................................. 28
2-201 Responsibilities of Permit Holder, Person in Charge, and Conditional
Employees. ............................................................................................... 28
2-3 Personal Cleanliness ........................................................................................... 41
2-301 Hands and Arms ....................................................................................... 41
2-302 Fingernails ................................................................................................ 44
xvii

FDA Food Code 2022 Contents
2-303 Jewelry ..................................................................................................... 44
2-304 Outer Clothing .......................................................................................... 44
2-4 Hygienic Practices ............................................................................................... 44
2-401 Food Contamination Prevention ............................................................... 45
2-402 Hair Restraints .......................................................................................... 45
2-403 Animals ..................................................................................................... 46
2-5 Responding to Contamination Events ................................................................. 46
Chapter 3. Food ........................................................................................................... 47
3-1 Characteristics ..................................................................................................... 47
3-101 Condition .................................................................................................. 47
3-2 Sources, Specifications, and Original Containers and Records .......................... 47
3-201 Sources. ................................................................................................... 47
3-202 Specifications for Receiving ..................................................................... 51
3-203 Original Containers and Records ............................................................. 53
3-204 Food Donation .......................................................................................... 55
3-3 Protection from Contamination After Receiving ................................................... 55
3-301 Preventing Contamination by Employees ................................................. 55
3-302 Preventing Food and Ingredient Contamination ....................................... 57
3-303 Preventing Contamination from Ice Used as a Coolant ............................ 60
3-304 Preventing Contamination from Equipment, Utensils, and Linens ............ 60
3-305 Preventing Contamination from the Premises .......................................... 63
3-306 Preventing Contamination by Consumers ................................................ 64
3-307 Preventing Contamination from Other Sources ........................................ 66
3-4 Destruction of Organisms of Public Health Concern............................................ 66
3-401 Cooking .................................................................................................... 66
3-402 Freezing ................................................................................................... 71
3-403 Reheating ................................................................................................. 72
3-404 Other Methods .......................................................................................... 73
3-5 Limitation of Growth of Organisms of Public Health Concern .............................. 73
3-501 Temperature and Time Control. ............................................................... 73
3-502 Specialized Processing Methods .............................................................. 80
3-6 Food Identity, Presentation, and On-Premises Labeling ..................................... 85
3-601 Accurate Representation .......................................................................... 85
3-602 Labeling .................................................................................................... 85
3-603 Consumer Advisory .................................................................................. 86
3-7 Contaminated Food ............................................................................................. 87
3-701 Disposition ................................................................................................ 87
xviii

FDA Food Code 2022 Contents
3-8 Special Requirements for Highly Susceptible Populations .................................. 88
3-801 Additional Safeguards .............................................................................. 88
Chapter 4. Equipment, Utensils, and Linens ............................................................ 91
4-1 Materials for Construction and Repair ................................................................. 91
4-101 Multiuse. ................................................................................................... 91
4-2 Design and Construction ..................................................................................... 94
4-201 Durability and Strength ............................................................................. 94
4-202 Cleanability ............................................................................................... 94
4-203 Accuracy ................................................................................................... 96
4-204 Functionality ............................................................................................. 96
4-205 Acceptability ........................................................................................... 102
4-3 Numbers and Capacities ................................................................................... 103
4-301 Equipment .............................................................................................. 103
4-302 Utensils, Temperature Measuring Devices, and Testing Devices .......... 104
4-303 Cleaning Agents and Sanitizers ............................................................. 105
4-4 Location and Installation .................................................................................... 105
4-401 Location .................................................................................................. 105
4-402 Installation .............................................................................................. 106
4-5 Maintenance and Operation .............................................................................. 107
4-501 Equipment .............................................................................................. 107
4-502 Utensils and Temperature and Pressure Measuring Devices ................. 111
4-6 Cleaning of Equipment and Utensils.................................................................. 112
4-601 Objective ................................................................................................ 112
4-602 Frequency .............................................................................................. 112
4-603 Methods .................................................................................................. 115
4-7 Sanitization of Equipment and Utensils ............................................................. 116
4-701 Objective ................................................................................................ 117
4-702 Frequency .............................................................................................. 117
4-703 Methods .................................................................................................. 117
4-8 Laundering ........................................................................................................ 118
4-801 Objective ................................................................................................ 118
4-802 Frequency .............................................................................................. 118
4-803 Methods .................................................................................................. 118
4-9 Protection of Clean Items .................................................................................. 119
4-901 Drying ..................................................................................................... 119
4-902 Lubricating and Reassembling ............................................................... 120
4-903 Storing .................................................................................................... 120
xix

FDA Food Code 2022 Contents
4-904 Preventing Contamination ...................................................................... 121
Chapter 5. Water, Plumbing, and Waste .................................................................. 123
5-1 Water ................................................................................................................. 123
5-101 Source .................................................................................................... 123
5-102 Quality .................................................................................................... 124
5-103 Quantity and Availability ......................................................................... 124
5-104 Distribution, Delivery, and Retention, ..................................................... 125
5-2 Plumbing System............................................................................................... 125
5-201 Materials ................................................................................................. 125
5-202 Design, Construction, and Installation. ................................................... 126
5-203 Numbers and Capacities ........................................................................ 126
5-204 Location and Placement ......................................................................... 128
5-205 Operation and Maintenance ................................................................... 128
5-3 Mobile Water Tank and Mobile Food Establishment Water Tank ...................... 129
5-301 Materials ................................................................................................. 130
5-302 Design and Construction ........................................................................ 130
5-303 Numbers and Capacities ........................................................................ 131
5-304 Operation and Maintenance ................................................................... 131
5-4 Sewage, Other Liquid Waste, and Rainwater .................................................... 132
5-401 Mobile Holding Tank ............................................................................... 132
5-402 Retention, Drainage, and Delivery .......................................................... 132
5-403 Disposal Facility ..................................................................................... 133
5-5 Refuse, Recyclables, and Returnables .............................................................. 134
5-501 Facilities on the Premises ....................................................................... 134
5-502 Removal ................................................................................................. 137
5-503 Facilities for Disposal and Recycling ...................................................... 137
Chapter 6. Physical Facilities ................................................................................... 139
6-1 Materials for Construction and Repair ............................................................... 139
6-101 Indoor Areas ........................................................................................... 139
6-102 Outdoor Areas ........................................................................................ 140
6-2 Design, Construction, and Installation ............................................................... 140
6-201 Cleanability ............................................................................................. 140
6-202 Functionality ........................................................................................... 142
6-3 Numbers and Capacities ................................................................................... 144
6-301 Handwashing Sinks ................................................................................ 144
6-302 Toilets and Urinals .................................................................................. 145
6-303 Lighting ................................................................................................... 145
6-304 Ventilation ............................................................................................... 146
xx

FDA Food Code 2022 Contents
6-305 Dressing Areas and Lockers .................................................................. 146
6-306 Service Sinks .......................................................................................... 146
6-4 Location and Placement .................................................................................... 147
6-401 Handwashing Sinks ................................................................................ 147
6-402 Toilet Rooms .......................................................................................... 147
6-403 Employee Accommodations ................................................................... 147
6-404 Distressed Merchandise ......................................................................... 147
6-405 Refuse, Recyclables, and Returnables .................................................. 148
6-5 Maintenance and Operation .............................................................................. 148
6-501 Premises, Structures, Attachments, and Fixtures - Methods .................. 148
Chapter 7. Poisonous or Toxic Materials ................................................................ 153
7-1 Labeling and Identification ................................................................................. 153
7-101 Original Containers ................................................................................. 153
7-102 Working Containers ................................................................................ 153
7-2 Operational Supplies and Applications .............................................................. 154
7-201 Storage ................................................................................................... 154
7-202 Presence and Use .................................................................................. 154
7-203 Container Prohibitions ............................................................................ 155
7-204 Chemicals ............................................................................................... 156
7-205 Lubricants ............................................................................................... 157
7-206 Pesticides ............................................................................................... 157
7-207 Medicines ............................................................................................... 158
7-208 First Aid Supplies ................................................................................... 158
7-209 Other Personal Care Items ..................................................................... 158
7-3 Stock and Retail Sale ........................................................................................ 159
7-301 Storage and Display ............................................................................... 159
7-301.11 Separation ........................................................................................ 159
Chapter 8. Compliance and Enforcement ............................................................... 161
8-1 Code Applicability .............................................................................................. 161
8-101 Use for Intended Purpose ....................................................................... 161
8-102 Additional Requirements ........................................................................ 162
8-103 Variances ............................................................................................... 162
8-2 Plan Submission and Approval .......................................................................... 163
8-201 Facility and Operating Plans ................................................................... 163
8-202 Confidentiality ......................................................................................... 166
8-203 Construction Inspection and Approval .................................................... 166
8-3 Permit to Operate .............................................................................................. 166
8-301 Requirement ........................................................................................... 166
xxi

FDA Food Code 2022 Contents
8-302 Application Procedure ............................................................................ 166
8-303 Issuance ................................................................................................. 168
8-304 Conditions of Retention .......................................................................... 169
8-4 Inspection and Correction of Violations. ............................................................ 171
8-401 Frequency .............................................................................................. 171
8-402 Competency and Access ........................................................................ 172
8-403 Report of Findings .................................................................................. 173
8-404 Imminent Health Hazard ......................................................................... 175
8-405 Violation of Priority Item or Priority Foundation Item .............................. 175
8-406 Core Item Violation. ................................................................................ 176
8-5 Prevention of Foodborne Disease Transmission By Employees ....................... 176
8-501 Investigation and Control ........................................................................ 176
Index ............................................................................................................................... 1
Annex 1. Compliance and Enforcement .................................................................. 179
1. Purpose ............................................................................................................... 179
2. Explanation .......................................................................................................... 179
3. Principle ............................................................................................................... 180
4. Recommendation ................................................................................................ 180
5. Parts .................................................................................................................... 180
8-6 Constitutional Protection............................................................................. 181
8-601 Procedural Safeguards ........................................................................... 181
8-602 Judicial Review ....................................................................................... 181
8-7 Authority ..................................................................................................... 181
8-701 Legal Authority ....................................................................................... 181
8-8 Notices ....................................................................................................... 182
8-801 Service of Notice .................................................................................... 182
8-9 Remedies ................................................................................................... 183
8-901 Criteria for Seeking Remedies ................................................................ 183
8-902 Inspection Orders ................................................................................... 184
8-903 Holding, Examination, and Destruction of Food ..................................... 184
8-904 Summary Permit Suspension ................................................................. 186
8-905 Hearings Administration ......................................................................... 187
8-906 Hearing Officer, Purpose Qualifications, Appointment, and Powers ....... 191
8-907 Rights of Parties and Evidence .............................................................. 193
8-908 Settlement .............................................................................................. 194
8-909 Inspection Orders ................................................................................... 194
8-910 Means of Instituting Judicial Enforcement Proceedings ......................... 195
8-911 Criminal Proceedings ............................................................................. 196
8-912 Injunctive Proceeding ............................................................................. 196
8-913 Civil Proceedings .................................................................................... 196
xxii

FDA Food Code 2022 Contents
Annex 2. References ................................................................................................. 199
1. United States Code and Code of Federal Regulations ........................................ 199
2. Bibliography ......................................................................................................... 205
Preface 205
Chapter 1. Purpose and Definitions .................................................................. 206
Chapter 2. Management and Personnel ........................................................... 209
Chapter 3. Food ................................................................................................ 221
Chapter 4. Equipment, Utensils, and Linens .................................................... 248
Chapter 5. Water, Plumbing, and Waste .......................................................... 251
Chapter 6 Physical Facilities............................................................................. 253
Chapter 7. Poisonous or Toxic Materials .......................................................... 254
3. Supporting Documents ........................................................................................ 256
Summary of Supporting Documents ........................................................................ 258
4. Food Defense Guidance from Farm to Table ...................................................... 273
Annex 3. Public Health Reasons/ Administrative Guidelines ................................ 275
Chapter 1. Purpose and Definitions ......................................................................... 275
Chapter 2. Management and Personnel .................................................................. 286
Chapter 3. Food ....................................................................................................... 346
Chapter 4. Equipment, Utensils, and Linens ............................................................ 427
Chapter 5. Water, Plumbing, and Waste ................................................................. 456
Chapter 6. Physical Facilities ................................................................................... 468
Chapter 7. Poisonous or Toxic Materials ................................................................. 479
Chapter 8. Compliance and Enforcement ................................................................ 485
Annex 4. Management of Food Safety Practices – Achieving Active Managerial
Control of Foodborne Illness Risk Factors ............................................................. 489
1. Active Managerial Control ................................................................................... 489
2. Introduction to HACCP ....................................................................................... 492
3. The HACCP Principles ....................................................................................... 494
4. The Process Approach – A Practical Application of HACCP at Retail to Achieve
Active Managerial Control ................................................................................... 512
5. FDA Retail HACCP Manuals .............................................................................. 519
6. Advantages of Using the Principles of HACCP ................................................... 520
7. Summary ............................................................................................................ 521
8. Acknowledgments............................................................................................... 521
9. Resources and References ................................................................................ 522
xxiii

FDA Food Code 2022 Contents
Annex 5. Conducting Risk-Based Inspections ....................................................... 525
1. Purpose and Scope ............................................................................................ 525
2. Risk-based Routine Inspections ......................................................................... 526
3. What Is Needed to Properly Conduct a Risk-Based Inspection? ........................ 528
4. Risk-based Inspection Methodology ................................................................... 532
5. Achieving On-Site and Long-Term Compliance .................................................. 552
6. Inspection Form and Scoring .............................................................................. 558
7. Closing Conference ............................................................................................ 559
8. Summary ............................................................................................................ 559
Annex 6. Food Processing Criteria .......................................................................... 561
1. Introduction ......................................................................................................... 561
2. Reduced Oxygen Packaging .............................................................................. 562
3. Smoking and Curing ........................................................................................... 572
Annex 7. Model Forms, Guides, and Other Aids .................................................... 579
FORM 1-A Conditional Employee and Food Employee Interview ........................... 581
FORM 1-B Conditional Employee or Food Employee Reporting Agreement........... 584
FORM 1-C Conditional Employee or Food Employee Medical Referral .................. 585
FORM 1-D Application for Bare Hand Contact Procedure (As specified in Food Code
¶ 3-301.11(E)) ..................................................................................................... 588
FORM 2-A Adoption by Reference .......................................................................... 590
FORM 2-B Adoption by Section-by-Section Reference ........................................... 592
FORM 3-A Food Establishment Inspection Report .................................................. 594
Guide 3-B Instructions for Marking the Food Establishment Inspection Report,
Including Food Code References for Risk Factors/Interventions and Good Retail
Practices ............................................................................................................. 597
Chart 4-A Summary Chart for Minimum Cooking Food Temperatures and Holding
Times Required by Chapter 3 ............................................................................. 629
Chart 4-B Summary Chart for Minimum Food Temperatures and Holding Times
Required by Chapter 3 for Reheating Foods for Hot Holding ............................. 630
Chart 4-C Summary Chart for Ready-to-Eat, Time/Temperature Control for Safety
Food Date Marking § 3-501.17(A) – (E) and Disposition § 3-501.18 .................. 631
Chart 4-D FDA Food Code Mobile Food Establishment Matrix ............................... 632
Summary of Changes in the 2022 FDA Food Code .................................................... 1
General ........................................................................................................................ 1
xxiv

FDA Food Code 2022 Contents
Preface ........................................................................................................................ 2
Chapter 1. Purpose and Definitions ............................................................................. 2
Chapter 2. Management and Personnel ...................................................................... 3
Chapter 3. Food ........................................................................................................... 4
Chapter 4. Equipment, Utensils, and Linens ................................................................ 7
Chapter 5. Water, Plumbing, and Waste ..................................................................... 7
Chapter 6. Physical Facilities ....................................................................................... 7
Chapter 7. Poisonous or Toxic Materials ..................................................................... 8
Chapter 8. Compliance and Enforcement .................................................................... 8
Annex 1. Compliance and Enforcement ...................................................................... 9
Annex 2. References ................................................................................................... 9
Annex 3. Public Health Reasons/Administrative Guidelines ...................................... 11
Annex 4. Management of Food Practices-Achieving Active Managerial Control of
Foodborne Illness Risk Factors ............................................................................ 15
Annex 5. Conducting Risk-Based Inspection ............................................................. 15
Annex 6. Food Processing Criteria ............................................................................ 16
Annex 7. Models Forms, Guides, and Other Aids ...................................................... 16
xxv

This page is intentionally left blank.
xxvi

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 1. Purpose and Definitions
Chapter 1. Purpose and
Definitions
Parts:
1-1 Title, Intent, Scope
1-2 Definitions
1-1 Title, Intent, Scope
Subparts:
1-101 Title
1-102 Intent
1-103 Scope
1-101 Title
1-101.10 Food Code.
These provisions shall be known as the Food Code, hereinafter referred to as
"this Code."
1-102 Intent
1-102.10 Food Safety, Illness Prevention, and Honest Presentation.
The purpose of this Code is to safeguard public health and provide to
consumers food that is safe, unadulterated, and honestly presented..
1-103 Scope
1-103.10 Statement.
This Code establishes definitions; sets standards for management and
personnel, FOOD operations, and EQUIPMENT and facilities; and provides for FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT plan review, PERMIT issuance, inspection, EMPLOYEE RESTRICTION,
and PERMIT suspension.
1

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 1. Purpose and Definitions
1-2 Definitions
1-201 Applicability and Terms Defined
1-201.10 Statement of Application and Listing of Terms The following
definitions shall apply in the interpretation and application of this
Code.
(A) The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and application of
this Code.
(B) Terms Defined. As used in this Code, each of the terms listed in
¶1-201.10(B) shall have the meaning stated below.
Accredited Program.
(1) "Accredited program" means a food protection manager
certification program that has been evaluated and listed by an
accrediting agency as conforming to national standards for
organizations that certify individuals.
(2) “Accredited program" refers to the certification process and is a
designation based upon an independent evaluation of factors
such as the sponsor's mission; organizational structure; staff
resources; revenue sources; policies; public information regarding
program scope, eligibility requirements, re-certification, discipline,
and grievance procedures; and test development and
administration.
(3) “Accredited program" does not refer to training functions or
educational programs.
Additive.
(1) "Food additive" has the meaning stated in the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act, § 201(s) and 21 CFR 170.3(e)(1).
(2) Color additive" has the meaning stated in the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act, § 201(t) and 21 CFR 70.3(f).
"Adulterated" has the meaning stated in the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act, § 402.
"Approved" means acceptable to the REGULATORY AUTHORITY based on a
determination of conformity with principles, practices, and generally
recognized standards that protect public health.
Asymptomatic.
(1) "Asymptomatic" means without obvious symptoms; not showing
or producing indications of a disease or other medical condition,
such as an individual infected with a pathogen but not exhibiting or
2

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 1. Purpose and Definitions
producing any signs or symptoms of vomiting, diarrhea, or
jaundice.
(2) "Asymptomatic" includes not showing symptoms because
symptoms have resolved or subsided, or because symptoms never
manifested.
"aw" means water activity which is a measure of the free moisture in a
FOOD, is the quotient of the water vapor pressure of the substance divided
by the vapor pressure of pure water at the same temperature, and is
indicated by the symbol AW .
"Balut" means an embryo inside a fertile EGG that has been incubated for
a period sufficient for the embryo to reach a specific stage of
development after which it is removed from incubation before hatching.
"Beverage" means a liquid for drinking, including water.
"Bottled drinking water" means water that is SEALED in bottles,
packages, or other containers and offered for sale for human
consumption, including bottled mineral water.
"Casing" means a tubular container for sausage products made of either
natural or artificial (synthetic) material.
"Certification number" means the unique identification number issued
by the SHELLFISH CONTROL AUTHORITY to each DEALER for each location.
Each certification number shall consist to a one-to-five digit Arabic
number preceded by the two letter State abbreviation and followed by a
two-letter abbreviation for the type of activity or activities the DEALER is
qualified to perform in accordance with this provision of the National
Shellfish Sanitation Program using the terms in the following tables:
Table A. Certifications
Acronym Term
SP Shucker Packer Table B. Permits
Acronym Term
RP Repacker
PHP Post-Harvest
SS Shellstock Shipper Processing
AQ Aquaculture
RS Reshipper
WS Wet Storage
DP Depuration
3

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 1 Purpose and Definitions
"CFR" means CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS. Citations in this Code to
the CFR refer sequentially to the Title, Part, and Section numbers, such
as 40 CFR 180.194 refers to Title 40, Part 180, Section 194.
CIP.
(1) "CIP" means cleaned in place by the circulation or flowing by
mechanical means through a piping system of a detergent
solution, water rinse, and SANITIZING solution onto or over
EQUIPMENT surfaces that require cleaning, such as the method
used, in part, to clean and SANITIZE a frozen dessert machine.
(3) "CIP" does not include the cleaning of EQUIPMENT such as band
saws, slicers, or mixers that are subjected to in-place manual
cleaning without the use of a CIP system.
"Commingle" means the act of combining different lots of shellfish.
Comminuted.
(1) "Comminuted" means reduced in size by methods including
chopping, flaking, grinding, or mincing.
(2) "Comminuted" includes FISH or MEAT products that are reduced in
size and restructured or reformulated such as gefilte FISH, gyros,
ground beef, and sausage; and a mixture of 2 or more types of
MEAT that have been reduced in size and combined, such as
sausages made from 2 or more MEATS.
"Conditional employee" means a potential FOOD EMPLOYEE to whom a
job offer is made, conditional on responses to subsequent medical
questions or examinations designed to identify potential FOOD EMPLOYEES
who may be suffering from a disease that can be transmitted through
FOOD and done in compliance with Title 1 of the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990.
"Confirmed disease outbreak" means a foodborne disease outbreak in
which laboratory analysis of appropriate specimens identifies a causative
agent and epidemiological analysis implicates the food as the source of
the illness.
"Consumer" means a person who is a member of the public, takes
possession of FOOD, is not functioning in the capacity of an operator of a
FOOD ESTABLISHMENT or food processing plant, and does not offer the food
for resale.
Core Item.
(1) "Core item" means a provision in this Code that is not designated
as a PRIORITY ITEM or a PRIORITY FOUNDATION ITEM.
(2) "Core item" includes an item that usually relates to general
sanitation, operational controls, sanitation standard operating
4

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 1 Purpose and Definitions
procedures (SSOPs), facilities or structures, equipment design, or
general maintenance.
"Corrosion-resistant material" means a material that maintains
acceptable surface cleanability characteristics under prolonged influence
of the FOOD to be contacted, the normal use of cleaning compounds and
SANITIZING solutions, and other conditions of the use environment.
"Counter-mounted equipment" means EQUIPMENT that is not portable
and is designed to be mounted off the floor on a table, counter, or shelf.
"Critical control point" means a point or procedure in a specific FOOD
system where loss of control may result in an unacceptable health risk.
"Critical limit" means the maximum or minimum value to which a
physical, biological, or chemical parameter must be controlled at a
CRITICAL CONTROL POINT to minimize the risk that the identified FOOD safety
hazard may occur.
“Cut leafy greens” means fresh leafy greens whose leaves have been
cut, shredded, sliced, chopped, or torn. The term “leafy greens” includes
iceberg lettuce, romaine lettuce, leaf lettuce, butter lettuce, baby leaf
lettuce (i.e., immature lettuce or leafy greens), escarole, endive, spring
mix, spinach, cabbage, kale, arugula and chard. The term “leafy greens”
does not include herbs such as cilantro or parsley.
"Dealer" means a PERSON who is authorized by a SHELLFISH CONTROL
AUTHORITY for the activities of SHELLSTOCK shipper, shucker-packer,
repacker, reshipper, or depuration processor of MOLLUSCAN SHELLFISH
according to the provisions of the National Shellfish Sanitation Program.
"Disclosure" means a written statement that clearly identifies the
animal-derived FOODS which are, or can be ordered, raw, undercooked, or
without otherwise being processed to eliminate pathogens, or items that
contain an ingredient that is raw, undercooked, or without otherwise
being processed to eliminate pathogens.
Drinking Water.
(1) "Drinking water" means water that meets criteria as specified in
40 CFR 141 National Primary Drinking Water Regulations.
(2) "Drinking water" is traditionally known as "potable water."
(3) "Drinking water" includes the term "water" except where the term
used connotes that the water is not potable, such as "boiler water,"
"mop water," "rainwater," "wastewater," and "nondrinking" water.
"Dry storage area" means a room or area designated for the storage of
PACKAGED or containerized bulk FOOD that is not TIME/TEMPERATURE
CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD and dry goods such as SINGLE-SERVICE items.
5

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 1 Purpose and Definitions
Easily Cleanable.
(1) "Easily cleanable" means a characteristic of a surface that:
(a) Allows effective removal of soil by normal cleaning
methods;
(b) Is dependent on the material, design, construction, and
installation of the surface; and
(c) Varies with the likelihood of the surface's role in
introducing pathogenic or toxigenic agents or other
contaminants into FOOD based on the surface's
APPROVED placement, purpose, and use.
(2) "Easily cleanable" includes a tiered application of the criteria that
qualify the surface as EASILY CLEANABLE as specified in
Subparagraph (1) of this definition to different situations in which
varying degrees of cleanability are required such as:
(a) The appropriateness of stainless steel for a FOOD
preparation surface as opposed to the lack of need for
stainless steel to be used for floors or for tables used for
CONSUMER dining; or
(b) The need for a different degree of cleanability for a
utilitarian attachment or accessory in the kitchen as
opposed to a decorative attachment or accessory in the
CONSUMER dining area.
"Easily movable" means:
(1) Portable; mounted on casters, gliders, or rollers; or provided with a
mechanical means to safely tilt a unit of EQUIPMENT for cleaning;
and
(2) Having no utility connection, a utility connection that disconnects
quickly, or a flexible utility connection line of sufficient length to
allow the EQUIPMENT to be moved for cleaning of the EQUIPMENT
and adjacent area.
Egg.
(1) "Egg" means the shell EGG of avian species such as chicken,
duck, goose, guinea, quail, RATITES or turkey.
(2) "Egg" does not include:
(a) A balut;
(b) The egg of reptile species such as alligator; or
(c) An EGG PRODUCT.
6

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 1 Purpose and Definitions
Egg Product.
(1) "Egg Product" means all, or a portion of, the contents found
inside EGGS separated from the shell and pasteurized in a FOOD
PROCESSING PLANT, with or without added ingredients, intended for
human consumption, such as dried, frozen or liquid eggs.
(2) "Egg Product" does not include FOOD which contains eggs only in
a relatively small proportion such as cake mixes.
"Employee" means the PERMIT HOLDER, PERSON IN CHARGE, FOOD
EMPLOYEE, PERSON having supervisory or management duties, PERSON on
the payroll, family member, volunteer, PERSON performing work under
contractual agreement, or other PERSON working in a FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT.
"EPA" means the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
Equipment.
(1) "Equipment" means an article that is used in the operation of a
FOOD ESTABLISHMENT such as a freezer, grinder, hood, ice maker,
MEAT block, mixer, oven, reach-in refrigerator, scale, sink, slicer,
stove, table, TEMPERATURE MEASURING DEVICE for ambient air,
VENDING MACHINE, or WAREWASHING machine.
(2) "Equipment" does not include apparatuses used for handling or
storing large quantities of packaged foods that are received from a
supplier in a cased or overwrapped lot, such as hand trucks,
forklifts, dollies, pallets, racks, and skids.
"Exclude" means to prevent a PERSON from working as an EMPLOYEE in a
FOOD ESTABLISHMENT or entering a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT as an EMPLOYEE.
"FDA" means the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.
Fish.
(1) "Fish" means fresh or saltwater finfish, crustaceans and other
forms of aquatic life (including alligator, frog, aquatic turtle,
jellyfish, sea cucumber, and sea urchin and the roe of such
animals) other than birds or mammals, and all mollusks, if such
animal life is intended for human consumption.
(2) "Fish" includes an edible human FOOD product derived in whole or
in part from FISH, including FISH that have been processed in any
manner.
"Food" means a raw, cooked, or processed edible substance, ice,
BEVERAGE, or ingredient used or intended for use or for sale in whole or in
part for human consumption, or chewing gum.
"Foodborne disease outbreak" means the occurrence of two or more
cases of a similar illness resulting from the ingestion of a common FOOD.
7

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 1 Purpose and Definitions
"Food-contact surface" means:
(1) A surface of EQUIPMENT or a UTENSIL with which FOOD normally
comes into contact; or
(2) A surface of EQUIPMENT or a UTENSIL from which FOOD may drain,
drip, or splash:
(a) Into a FOOD, or
(b) Onto a surface normally in contact with FOOD.
"Food employee" means an individual working with unPACKAGED FOOD,
FOOD EQUIPMENT or UTENSILS, or FOOD-CONTACT SURFACES.
Food Establishment.
(1) "Food establishment" means an operation that:
(a) Stores, prepares, packages, serves, vends FOOD directly to the
CONSUMER, or otherwise provides FOOD for human consumption
such as a restaurant; satellite or catered feeding location;
catering operation if the operation provides FOOD directly to a
CONSUMER or to a conveyance used to transport people;
market; vending location; conveyance used to transport people;
institution; or FOOD bank; and
(b) Relinquishes possession of FOOD to a CONSUMER directly, or
indirectly through a delivery service such as home delivery of
grocery orders or restaurant takeout orders, or delivery service
that is provided by common carriers.
(2) "Food establishment" includes:
(a) An element of the operation such as a transportation vehicle or
a central preparation facility that supplies a vending location or
satellite feeding location unless the vending or feeding location
is permitted by the REGULATORY AUTHORITY; and
(b) An operation that is conducted in a mobile, stationary,
temporary, or permanent facility or location; where
consumption is on or off the PREMISES; and regardless of
whether there is a charge for the FOOD.
(4) "Food establishment" does not include:
(a) An establishment that offers only pre-PACKAGED FOODS that are
not TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOODS;
(b) A produce stand that only offers whole, uncut fresh fruits and
vegetables;
(c) A FOOD PROCESSING PLANT; including those that are located on
the PREMISES of a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT;
8

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 1 Purpose and Definitions
(d) A kitchen in a private home if only FOOD that is not
TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD, is prepared for
sale or service at a function such as a religious or charitable
organization’s bake sale if allowed by LAW and if the CONSUMER
is informed by a clearly visible placard at the sales or service
location that the FOOD is prepared in a kitchen that is not
subject to regulation and inspection by the REGULATORY
AUTHORITY;
(e) An area where FOOD that is prepared as specified in
Subparagraph (3)(d) of this definition is sold or offered for
human consumption;
(f) A kitchen in a private home, such as a small family day-care
provider; or a bed-and-breakfast operation that prepares and
offers FOOD to guests if the home is owner occupied, the
number of available guest bedrooms does not exceed 6,
breakfast is the only meal offered, the number of guests served
does not exceed 18, and the CONSUMER is informed by
statements contained in published advertisements, mailed
brochures, and placards posted at the registration area that the
FOOD is prepared in a kitchen that is not regulated and
inspected by the REGULATORY AUTHORITY; or
(g) A private home that receives catered or home-delivered FOOD.
Food Processing Plant.
(1) "Food processing plant" means a commercial operation that
manufactures, packages, labels, or stores FOOD for human
consumption, and provides FOOD for sale or distribution to other
business entities such as FOOD PROCESSING PLANTS or FOOD
ESTABLISHMENTS.
(2) "Food processing plant" does not include a FOOD establishment.
Game Animal.
(1) "Game animal" means an animal, the products of which are
FOOD, that is not classified as livestock, sheep, swine, goat, horse,
mule, or other equine in 9 CFR 301.2 Definitions, or as Poultry, or
FISH.
(2) "Game animal" includes mammals such as reindeer, elk, deer,
antelope, water buffalo, bison, rabbit, squirrel, opossum, raccoon,
nutria, or muskrat, and nonaquatic reptiles such as land snakes.
(3) "Game animal" does not include ratites.
"General use pesticide" means a pesticide that is not classified by EPA
for restricted use as specified in 40 CFR 152.175 Pesticides classified for
restricted use.
9

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 1 Purpose and Definitions
"Grade A standards" means the requirements of the United States
Public Health Service/FDA "Grade A Pasteurized Milk Ordinance" with
which certain fluid and dry milk and milk products comply.
"HACCP plan" means a written document that delineates the formal
procedures for following the HAZARD Analysis and CRITICAL CONTROL
POINT principles developed by The National Advisory Committee on
Microbiological Criteria for Foods.
Handwashing Sink.
(1) "Handwashing sink" means a lavatory, a basin or vessel for
washing, a wash basin, or a plumbing fixture especially placed for
use in personal hygiene and designed for the washing of the
hands.
(2) "Handwashing sink includes an automatic handwashing facility.
"Hazard" means a biological, chemical, or physical property that may
cause an unacceptable CONSUMER health RISK.
"Health practitioner" means a physician licensed to practice medicine,
or if allowed by LAW, a nurse practitioner, physician assistant, or similar
medical professional.
"Hermetically sealed container" means a container that is designed
and intended to be secure against the entry of microorganisms and, in
the case of low acid canned FOODS, to maintain the commercial sterility of
its contents after processing.
"Highly susceptible population" means PERSONS who are more likely
than other people in the general population to experience foodborne
disease because they are:
(1) Immunocompromised; preschool age children, or older adults; and
(2) Obtaining FOOD at a facility that provides services such as
custodial care, health care, or assisted living, such as a child or
adult day care center, kidney dialysis center, hospital or nursing
home, or nutritional or socialization services such as a senior
center.
"Imminent health hazard" means a significant threat or danger to health
that is considered to exist when there is evidence sufficient to show that a
product, practice, circumstance, or event creates a situation that requires
immediate correction or cessation of operation to prevent injury based on:
(1) The number of potential injuries, and
(2) The nature, severity, and duration of the anticipated injury.
"Injected" means manipulating MEAT to which a solution has been
introduced into its interior by processes that are referred to as "injecting,"
“pump marinating,” or "stitch pumping”.
10

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 1 Purpose and Definitions
“In-Shell Product” means non-living, processed shellfish with one or
both shells present.
“Intact Meat” means a cut of whole muscle(s) MEAT that has not
undergone COMMINUTION, MECHANICAL TENDERIZATION, vacuum tumbling
with solutions, reconstruction, cubing or pounding.
Juice.
(1) "Juice" means the aqueous liquid expressed or extracted from
one or more fruits or vegetables, purées of the edible portions of
one or more fruits or vegetables, or any concentrates of such liquid
or purée.
(2) "Juice" does not include, for purposes of HACCP, liquids, purées,
or concentrates that are not used as BEVERAGES or ingredients of
BEVERAGES.
"Kitchenware" means FOOD preparation and storage UTENSILS.
"Law" means applicable local, state, and federal statutes, regulations,
and ordinances.
"Linens" means fabric items such as cloth hampers, cloth napkins,
tablecloths, wiping cloths, and work garments including cloth gloves.
Major Food Allergen.
(1) "Major food allergen" means:
(a) Milk, EGG, FISH (such as bass, flounder, cod, and including
crustacean shellfish such as crab, lobster, or shrimp), tree nuts
(such as almonds, pecans, or walnuts), wheat, peanuts,
soybeans and sesame; or
(b) A FOOD ingredient that contains protein derived from a FOOD, as
specified in Subparagraph (1)(a) of this definition.
(2) "Major food allergen" does not include:
(a) Any highly refined oil derived from a food specified in
Subparagraph (1)(a) of this definition and any ingredient
derived from such highly refined oil; or
(b) Any ingredient that is exempt under the petition or notification
process specified in the Food Allergen Labeling and Consumer
Protection Act of 2004 (Public Law 108-282).
"Meat" means the flesh of animals used as FOOD including the dressed
flesh of cattle, swine, sheep, or goats and other edible animals, except
FISH, POULTRY, and wild GAME ANIMALS as specified under Subparagraphs
3-201.17(A)(3) and (4).
"Mechanically Tenderized" means manipulating meat by piercing with
a set of needles, pins, blades or any mechanical device, which breaks up
11

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 1 Purpose and Definitions
muscle fiber and tough connective tissue, to increase tenderness. This
includes INJECTION, scoring, and processes which may be referred to as
“blade tenderizing,” “jaccarding,” “pinning,” or “needling”.
"mg/L" means milligrams per liter, which is the metric equivalent of parts
per million (ppm).
"Molluscan shellfish" means any edible species of fresh or frozen
oysters, clams, mussels, and scallops, or edible portions thereof, except
when the scallop product consists only of the shucked adductor muscle.
MOLLUSCAN SHELLFISH includes SHELLSTOCK, SHUCKED SHELLFISH and IN-
SHELL PRODUCTS.
Non-Continuous Cooking.
(1) "Non-continuous cooking" means the cooking of FOOD in a FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT using a process in which the initial heating of the
FOOD is intentionally halted so that it may be cooled and held for
complete cooking later prior to sale or service.
(2) "Non-continuous cooking" does not include cooking procedures
that only involve temporarily interrupting or slowing an otherwise
continuous cooking process.
Packaged.
(1) "Packaged" means bottled, canned, cartoned, bagged, or
wrapped, whether PACKAGED in a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT or a FOOD
PROCESSING PLANT.
(2) "Packaged" does not include wrapped or placed in a carry-out
container to protect the food during service or delivery to the
consumer, by a food employee, upon consumer request.
"Permit" means the document issued by the REGULATORY AUTHORITY that
authorizes a PERSON to operate a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT.
"Permit holder" means the entity that:
(1) Is legally responsible for the operation of the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT
such as the owner, the owner's agent, or other PERSON; and
(2) Possesses a valid PERMIT to operate a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT.
"Person" means an association, a corporation, individual, partnership,
other legal entity, government, or governmental subdivision or agency.
"Person in charge" means the individual present at a FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT who is responsible for the operation at the time of
inspection.
12

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 1 Purpose and Definitions
Personal Care Items.
(1) "Personal care items" means items or substances that may be
poisonous, toxic, or a source of contamination and are used to
maintain or enhance a PERSON'S health, hygiene, or appearance.
(2) "Personal care items" include items such as medicines; first aid
supplies; and other items such as cosmetics, and toiletries such as
toothpaste and mouthwash.
"pH" means the symbol for the negative logarithm of the hydrogen ion
concentration, which is a measure of the degree of acidity or alkalinity of
a solution.
• Values between 0 and 7 indicate acidity.
• Values between 7 and 14 indicate alkalinity.
• The value for pure distilled water is 7, which is considered neutral.
"Physical facilities" means the structure and interior surfaces of a FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT including accessories such as soap and towel dispensers
and attachments such as light fixtures and heating or air conditioning
system vents.
"Plumbing fixture" means a receptacle or device that:
(1) Is permanently or temporarily connected to the water distribution
system of the PREMISES and demands a supply of water from the
system; or
(2) Discharges used water, waste materials, or SEWAGE directly or
indirectly to the drainage system of the PREMISES.
"Plumbing system" means the water supply and distribution pipes;
PLUMBING FIXTURES and traps; soil, waste, and vent pipes; sanitary and
storm sewers and building drains, including their respective connections,
devices, and appurtenances within the PREMISES; and water-treating
EQUIPMENT.
"Poisonous or toxic materials" means substances that are not
intended for ingestion and are included in 5 categories:
(1) Cleaners and SANITIZERS, which include cleaning and SANITIZING
agents and agents such as caustics, acids, drying agents,
polishes, and other chemicals;
(2) Pesticides, except SANITIZERS, which include substances such as
insecticides and rodenticides;
(3) Substances necessary for the operation and maintenance of the
establishment such as nonfood grade lubricants and PERSONAL
CARE ITEMS that may be deleterious to health; and
13

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 1 Purpose and Definitions
(4) Substances that are not necessary for the operation and
maintenance of the establishment and are on the PREMISES for
retail sale, such as petroleum products and paints.
(5) RESTRICTED USE PESTICIDE means a pesticide product that contains
the active ingredients specified in 40 CFR 152.175 Pesticides
classified for restricted use, and that is limited to use by or under
the direct supervision of a certified applicator.
"Poultry" means:
(1) Any domesticated bird (chickens, turkeys, ducks, geese, guineas,
ratites, or squabs), whether live or dead, as defined in 9 CFR
381.1 Poultry Products Inspection Regulations Definitions, Poultry;
and
(2) Any migratory waterfowl or game bird, pheasant, partridge, quail,
grouse, or pigeon, whether live or dead, as defined in 9 CFR 362.1
Voluntary Poultry Inspection Regulations, Definitions.
"Premises" means:
(1) The PHYSICAL FACILITY, its contents, and the contiguous land or
property under the control of the PERMIT HOLDER; or
(2) The PHYSICAL FACILITY, its contents, and the land or property not
described in Subparagraph (1) of this definition if its facilities and
contents are under the control of the PERMIT HOLDER and may
impact FOOD ESTABLISHMENT personnel, facilities, or operations,
and a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT is only one component of a larger
operation such as a health care facility, hotel, motel, school,
recreational camp, or prison.
"Primal cut" means a basic major cut into which carcasses and sides of
MEAT are separated, such as a beef round, pork loin, lamb flank, or veal
breast.
Priority Item.
(1) "Priority item" means a provision in this Code whose application
contributes directly to the elimination, prevention or reduction to an
acceptable level, hazards associated with foodborne illness or
injury and there is no other provision that more directly controls the
hazard.
(2) "Priority item" includes items with a quantifiable measure to
show control of hazards such as cooking, reheating, cooling,
handwashing; and
(3) "Priority item" is an item that is denoted in this Code with a
superscript “P” (i.e., P).
14

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 1 Purpose and Definitions
Priority Foundation Item.
(1) "Priority foundation item" means a provision in this Code whose
application supports, facilitates or enables one or more PRIORITY
ITEMS.
(2) "Priority foundation item" includes an item that requires the
purposeful incorporation of specific actions, equipment or
procedures by industry management to attain control of risk
factors that contribute to foodborne illness or injury such as
personnel training, infrastructure or necessary equipment,
HACCP plans, documentation or record keeping, and labeling;
and
(3) "Priority foundation item" is an item that is denoted in this Code
with a superscript “Pf” (i.e., Pf).
"Public water system" has the meaning stated in 40 CFR 141 National
Primary Drinking Water Regulations.
"Ratite" means a flightless bird such as an emu, ostrich, or rhea.
Ready-to-Eat Food.
(1) "Ready-to-eat food" means FOOD that:
(a) Is in a form that is edible without additional preparation to
achieve FOOD safety, as specified under one of the following: ¶
3-401.11(A) or (B), § 3-401.12, or § 3-402.11, or as specified in
¶ 3-401.11(C); or
(b) Is a raw or partially cooked animal FOOD and the consumer is
advised as specified in Subparagraphs 3-401.11(D)(1) and (3);
or
(c) Is prepared in accordance with a variance that is granted as
specified in Subparagraph 3-401.11(D) (4); and
(d) May receive additional preparation for palatability or aesthetic,
epicurean, gastronomic, or culinary purposes.
(2) "Ready-to-eat food" includes:
(a) Raw animal FOOD that is cooked as specified under § 3-401.11
or 3-401.12, or frozen as specified under § 3-402.11;
(b) Raw fruits and vegetables that are washed as specified under
§ 3-302.15;
(c) Plant FOODS that are cooked for hot holding, as specified
under § 3-401.13;
(d) All TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD that is cooked
to the temperature and time required for the specific FOOD
under Subpart 3-401 and cooled as specified under § 3-501.14;
15

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 1 Purpose and Definitions
(e) Plant FOOD for which further washing, cooking, or other
processing is not required for FOOD safety, and from which
rinds, peels, husks, or shells, if naturally present are removed;
(f) Substances derived from plants such as spices, seasonings,
and sugar;
(g) A bakery item such as bread, cakes, pies, fillings, or icing for
which further cooking is not required for FOOD safety;
(h) The following products that are produced in accordance with
USDA guidelines and that have received a lethality treatment
for pathogens: dry, fermented sausages, such as dry salami or
pepperoni; salt-cured MEAT and POULTRY products, such as
prosciutto ham, country cured ham, and Parma ham; and dried
MEAT and POULTRY products, such as jerky or beef sticks; and
(i) FOODS manufactured as specified in 21 CFR Part 113,
Thermally Processed Low-Acid Foods Packaged in
Hermetically Sealed Containers.
(4) "Ready-to-eat food" does not include:
(a) Commercially PACKAGED FOOD that bears a manufacturer’s
cooking instructions; and
(b) FOOD for which the manufacturer has provided information that
it has not been processed to control pathogens.
Reduced Oxygen Packaging.
(1) "Reduced oxygen packaging” means:
(a) The reduction of the amount of oxygen in a PACKAGE by
removing oxygen; displacing oxygen and replacing it with
another gas or combination of gases; or otherwise controlling
the oxygen content to a level below that normally found in the
atmosphere (approximately 21% at sea level); and
(b) A process as specified in Subparagraph (1)(a) of this definition
that involves a FOOD for which the HAZARDS Clostridium
botulinum or Listeria monocytogenes require control in the
final PACKAGED form.
(2) "Reduced oxygen packaging" includes:
(a) Vacuum PACKAGING, in which air is removed from a PACKAGE of
FOOD and the PACKAGE is HERMETICALLY SEALED so that a
vacuum remains inside the PACKAGE;
(b) Modified atmosphere PACKAGING, in which the atmosphere of a
PACKAGE of FOOD is modified so that its composition is different
from air, but the atmosphere may change over time due to the
permeability of the PACKAGING material or the respiration of the
16

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 1 Purpose and Definitions
FOOD. Modified atmosphere PACKAGING includes reduction in
the proportion of oxygen, total replacement of oxygen, or an
increase in the proportion of other gases such as carbon
dioxide or nitrogen;
(c) Controlled atmosphere PACKAGING, in which the atmosphere of
a PACKAGE of FOOD is modified so that until the PACKAGE is
opened, its composition is different from air, and continuous
control of that atmosphere is maintained, such as by using
oxygen scavengers or a combination of total replacement of
oxygen, nonrespiring FOOD, and impermeable PACKAGING
material;
(d) Cook chill PACKAGING, in which cooked FOOD is hot filled into
impermeable bags that are then sealed or crimped closed. The
bagged FOOD is rapidly chilled and refrigerated at temperatures
that inhibit the growth of psychrotrophic pathogens; or
(e) Sous vide PACKAGING, in which raw or partially cooked FOOD is
vacuum packaged in an impermeable bag, cooked in the bag,
rapidly chilled, and refrigerated at temperatures that inhibit the
growth of psychrotrophic pathogens.
"Refuse" means solid waste not carried by water through the SEWAGE
system.
"Regulatory authority" means the local, state, or federal enforcement
body or authorized representative having jurisdiction over the FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT.
"Reminder" means a written statement concerning the health RISK of
consuming animal FOODS raw, undercooked, or without otherwise being
processed to eliminate pathogens.
"Re-service" means the transfer of FOOD that is unused and returned by
a CONSUMER after being served or sold and in the possession of the
CONSUMER, to another PERSON.
"Restrict" means to limit the activities of a FOOD EMPLOYEE so that there
is no RISK of transmitting a disease that is transmissible through FOOD and
the FOOD EMPLOYEE does not work with exposed FOOD, clean EQUIPMENT,
UTENSILS, LINENS, or unwrapped SINGLE-SERVICE or SINGLE-USE ARTICLES.
"Restricted egg" means any check, dirty EGG, incubator reject, inedible,
leaker, or loss as defined in 9 CFR 590.
"Restricted use pesticide" means a pesticide product that contains the
active ingredients specified in 40 CFR 152.175 Pesticides classified for
restricted use, and that is limited to use by or under the direct supervision
of a certified applicator.
17

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 1 Purpose and Definitions
"Risk" means the likelihood that an adverse health effect will occur within
a population because of a HAZARD in a FOOD.
"Safe material" means:
(1) An article manufactured from or composed of materials that may
not reasonably be expected to result, directly or indirectly, in their
becoming a component or otherwise affecting the characteristics
of any FOOD;
(2) An additive that is used as specified in § 409 of the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act; or
(3) Other materials that are not ADDITIVES and that are used in
conformity with applicable regulations of the Food and Drug
Administration.
"Sanitization" means the application of cumulative heat or chemicals on
cleaned FOOD-CONTACT SURFACES that, when evaluated for efficacy, is
sufficient to yield a reduction of 5 logs, which is equal to a 99.999%
reduction of representative disease microorganisms of public health
importance.
"Sealed" means free of cracks or other openings that allow the entry or
passage of moisture.
"Service animal" means an animal such as a guide dog, signal dog, or
other animal individually trained to provide assistance to an individual
with a disability.
"Servicing area" means an operating base location to which a mobile
FOOD ESTABLISHMENT or transportation vehicle returns regularly for such
things as vehicle and equipment cleaning, discharging liquid or solid
wastes, refilling water tanks and ice bins, and boarding FOOD.
"Sewage" means liquid waste containing animal or vegetable matter in
suspension or solution and may include liquids containing chemicals in
solution.
"Shellfish control authority" means a state, federal, foreign, tribal, or
other government entity legally responsible for administering a program
that includes certification of MOLLUSCAN SHELLFISH harvesters and
DEALERs for interstate commerce.
"Shellstock" means live MOLLUSCAN SHELLFISH in the shell.
"Shiga-toxin producing Escherichia coli" (STEC) means any E. coli
capable of producing Shiga toxins (also called verocytotoxins). STEC
infections can be asymptomatic or may result in a spectrum of illness
ranging from mild non-bloody diarrhea, to hemorrhagic colitis (i.e., bloody
diarrhea), to hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS - a type of kidney failure).
Examples of serotypes of STEC include: E. coli O157:H7; E. coli
18

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 1 Purpose and Definitions
O157:NM; E. coli O26:H11; E. coli O145:NM; E. coli O103:H2; and E. coli
O111:NM. STEC are sometimes referred to as VTEC (verocytotoxigenic
E. coli) or as EHEC (Enterohemorrhagic E. coli). EHEC are a subset of
STEC which can cause hemorrhagic colitis or HUS.
"Shucked shellfish" means MOLLUSCAN SHELLFISH that have both shells
removed.
"Single-service articles" means TABLEWARE, carry-out UTENSILS, and
other items such as bags, containers, placemats, stirrers, straws,
toothpicks, and wrappers that are designed and constructed for one time,
one PERSON use after which they are intended for discard.
Single-Use Articles.
(1) Single-use articles" means UTENSILS and bulk FOOD containers
designed and constructed to be used once and discarded.
(2) "Single-use articles" includes items such as wax paper, butcher
paper, plastic wrap, formed aluminum food containers, jars,
plastic tubs or buckets, bread wrappers, pickle barrels,, ketchup
bottles, and number 10 cans which do not meet the materials,
durability, strength, and cleanability specifications under §§
4-101.11, 4-201.11, and 4-202.11 for multiuse utensils.
"Slacking" means the process of moderating the temperature of a FOOD
such as allowing a FOOD to gradually increase from a temperature of -
23°C (-10°F) to -4°C (25°F) in preparation for deep-fat frying or to
facilitate even heat penetration during the cooking of previously block-
frozen FOOD such as shrimp.
"Smooth" means:
(1) A food-contact surface having a surface free of pits and inclusions
with a cleanability equal to or exceeding that of (100 grit) number 3
stainless
(2) A nonfood-contact surface of equipment having a surface equal to
that of commercial grade hot-rolled steel free of visible scale; and
(3) A floor, wall, or ceiling having an even or level surface with no
roughness or projections that render it difficult to clean.
"Tableware" means eating, drinking, and serving UTENSILS for table use
such as flatware including forks,, knives, and spoons; hollowware
including bowls, cups, serving dishes, and tumblers; and plates.
"Temperature measuring device" means a thermometer,
thermocouple, thermistor, or other device that indicates the temperature
of FOOD, air, or water.
19

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 1 Purpose and Definitions
"Temporary food establishment" means a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT that
operates for a period of no more than 14 consecutive days in conjunction
with a single event or celebration.
Time/temperature control for safety food (formerly “potentially
hazardous food” (PHF).
(1) "Time/temperature control for safety food" means a FOOD that
requires time/temperature control for safety (TCS) to limit
pathogenic microorganism growth or toxin formation.
(2) "Time/temperature control for safety food" includes:
(a) An animal FOOD that is raw or heat-treated; a plant FOOD
that is heat-treated or consists of raw seed sprouts, cut
melons, cut leafy greens, cut tomatoes or mixtures of cut
tomatoes that are not modified in a way so that they are
unable to support pathogenic microorganism growth or toxin
formation, or garlic-in-oil mixturesthat are not modified in a
way so that they are unable to support pathogenic
microorganism growth or toxin formation; and
(b) Except as specified in Subparagraph (3)(d) of this definition,
a food that because of the interaction of its a and pH
w
values is designated as Product Assessment Required (PA)
in Table A or B of this definition:
Table A. Interaction of pH and AW for control of spores in FOOD heat-treated
to destroy vegetative cells and subsequently PACKAGED
a Values pH: 4.6 or Less pH: > 4.6 - 5.6 pH: > 5.6
w
≤0.92 Non-TCS food* Non-TCS food Non-TCS food
> 0.92 - 0.95 Non-TCS food Non-TCS food PA**
> 0.95 Non-TCS food PA PA
* TCS food means TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD
** PA means Product Assessment required
20

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 1 Purpose and Definitions
Table B. Interaction of PH and AW for control of vegetative cells and spores
in FOOD not heat-treated or heat-treated but not PACKAGED
a values pH: < 4.2 pH: 4.2 - 4.6 pH: > 4.6 - 5.0 pH: > 5.0
w
< 0.88 Non-TCS food* Non-TCS food Non-TCS food Non-TCS food
0.88 – 0.90 Non-TCS food Non-TCS food Non-TCS food PA**
> 0.90 – 0.92 Non-TCS food Non-TCS food PA PA
> 0.92 Non-TCS food PA PA PA
* TCS food means TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD
** PA means Product Assessment required
(3) "Time/temperature control for safety food" does not include:
(a) An air-cooled hard-boiled EGG with shell intact, or an egg with
shell intact that is not hard-boiled, but has been pasteurized to
destroy all viable Salmonellae;
(b) A FOOD in an unopened HERMETICALLY SEALED CONTAINER that is
commercially processed to achieve and maintain commercial
sterility under conditions of non-refrigerated storage and
distribution;
(c) A FOOD that because of its pH or aw value, or interaction of aw
and pH values, is designated as a non-TCS FOOD in Table A or
B of this definition;
(d) A FOOD that is designated as Product Assessment Required
(PA) in Table A or B of this definition and has undergone a
Product Assessment showing that the growth or toxin formation
of pathogenic microorganisms that are reasonably likely to
occur in that FOOD is precluded due to:
(i) Intrinsic factors including added or natural characteristics
of the food such as preservatives, antimicrobials,
humectants, acidulants, or nutrients,
(ii) Extrinsic factors including environmental or operational
factors that affect the food such as packaging, modified
atmosphere such as reduced oxygen packaging, shelf life
and use, or temperature range of storage and use, or
(iii) A combination of intrinsic and extrinsic factors; or
(e) A FOOD that does not support the growth or toxin formation of
pathogenic microorganisms in accordance with one of the
Subparagraphs (3)(a) - (3)(d) of this definition even though the
FOOD may contain a pathogenic microorganism or chemical or
21

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 1 Purpose and Definitions
physical contaminant at a level sufficient to cause illness or
injury.
"Tobacco Product" has the meaning stated in the Federal Food, Drug
and Cosmetic Act §201(rr) (21 U.S.C. 321(rr)).
"USDA" means the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
"Utensil" means a FOOD-CONTACT implement or container used in the
storage, preparation, transportation, dispensing, sale, or service of FOOD,
such as KITCHENWARE or TABLEWARE that is multiuse, SINGLE-SERVICE, or
SINGLE-USE; gloves used in contact with FOOD; temperature sensing
probes of FOOD TEMPERATURE MEASURING DEVICES; and probe-type price or
identification tags used in contact with FOOD.
"Variance" means a written document issued by the REGULATORY
AUTHORITY that authorizes a modification or waiver of one or more
requirements of this Code if, in the opinion of the REGULATORY AUTHORITY,
a health HAZARD or nuisance will not result from the modification or
waiver.
"Vending machine" means a self-service device that, upon insertion of a
coin, paper currency, token, card, or key, or by electronic transaction or
optional manual operation, dispenses unit servings of FOOD in bulk or in
PACKAGES without the necessity of replenishing the device between each
vending operation.
"Vending machine location" means the room, enclosure, space, or
area where one or more VENDING MACHINES are installed and operated
and includes the storage areas and areas on the PREMISES that are used
to service and maintain the VENDING MACHINES.
"Warewashing" means the cleaning and SANITIZING of UTENSILS and
FOOD-CONTACT SURFACES of EQUIPMENT.
"Whole-muscle, intact beef" "means whole muscle beef that is not
INJECTED, mechanically tenderized, reconstructed, or scored and
marinated, from which beef steaks may be cut.
22

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 2. Management and Personnel
Chapter 2. Management and
Personnel
Parts:
2-1 Supervision
2-2 Employee Health
2-3 Personal Cleanliness
2-4 Hygienic Practices
2-5 Responding to Contamination Events
2-1 Supervision
Subparts:
2-101 Responsibility
2-102 Knowledge
2-103 Duties
2-101 Responsibility
2-101.11 Assignment.
(A) Except as specified in ¶¶ (B) and (C) of this section, the PERMIT HOLDER shall
be the PERSON IN CHARGE or shall designate a PERSON IN CHARGE and shall
ensure that a PERSON IN CHARGE is present at the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT during
all hours of operation . Pf
(B) In a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT with two or more separately PERMITTED departments
that are the legal responsibility of the same PERMIT HOLDER and that are
located on the same PREMISES, the PERMIT HOLDER may, during specific time
periods when FOOD is not being prepared, PACKAGED, or served, designate a
single PERSON IN CHARGE who is present on the PREMISES during all hours of
operation, and who is responsible for each separately PERMITTED FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT on the PREMISES. Pf
(C) This section does not apply to certain types of FOOD ESTABLISHMENTs deemed
by the REGULATORY AUTHORITY to pose minimal risk of causing, or contributing
to, foodborne illness based on the nature of the operation and extent of the
FOOD preparation. Pf
23

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 2. Management and Personnel
2-102 Knowledge
2-102.11 Demonstration.
Based on the RISKS inherent to the FOOD operation, during inspections and upon
request the PERSON IN CHARGE shall demonstrate to the REGULATORY AUTHORITY
knowledge of foodborne disease prevention, application of the HAZARD Analysis
and CRITICAL CONTROL POINT principles, and the requirements of this Code. The
PERSON IN CHARGE shall demonstrate this knowledge by:
(A) Complying with this Code by having no violations of PRIORITY ITEMS
during the current inspection; Pf
(B) Being a certified FOOD protection manager who has shown proficiency
of required information through passing a test that is part of an
ACCREDITED PROGRAM; Pf or
(C) Responding correctly to the inspector's questions as they relate to the
specific FOOD operation. The areas of knowledge include:
(1) Describing the relationship between the prevention of foodborne
disease and the personal hygiene of a FOOD EMPLOYEE; Pf
(2) Explaining the responsibility of the PERSON IN CHARGE for
preventing the transmission of foodborne disease by a FOOD
EMPLOYEE who has a disease or medical condition that may
cause foodborne disease; Pf
(3) Describing the symptoms associated with the diseases that are
transmissible through FOOD; Pf
(4) Explaining the significance of the relationship between
maintaining the time and temperature of TIME/TEMPERATURE
CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD and the prevention of foodborne
illness; Pf
(5) Explaining the HAZARDS involved in the consumption of raw or
undercooked MEAT, POULTRY, EGGS, and FISH; Pf
(6) Stating the required FOOD temperatures and times for safe
cooking of TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD
including MEAT, POULTRY, EGGS, and FISH; Pf
(7) Stating the required temperatures and times for the safe
refrigerated storage, hot holding, cooling, and reheating of
TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD; Pf
(8) Describing the relationship between the prevention of foodborne
illness and the management and control of the following:
(a) Cross contamination, Pf
(b) Hand contact with READY-TO-EAT FOODS, Pf
24

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 2. Management and Personnel
(c) Handwashing, Pf and
(d) Maintaining the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT in a clean condition
and in good repair; Pf
(9) Describing FOODS identified as MAJOR FOOD ALLERGENS and the
symptoms that a MAJOR FOOD ALLERGEN could cause in a
sensitive individual who has an allergic reaction. Pf
(10) Explaining the relationship between FOOD safety and providing
EQUIPMENT that is:
(a) Sufficient in number and capacity, Pf and
(b) Properly designed, constructed, located, installed,
operated, maintained, and cleaned; Pf
(11) Explaining correct procedures for cleaning and SANITIZING
UTENSILS and FOOD-CONTACT SURFACES of EQUIPMENT; Pf
(12) Identifying the source of water used and measures taken to
ensure that it remains protected from contamination such as
providing protection from backflow and precluding the creation
of cross connections; Pf
(13) Identifying POISONOUS OR TOXIC MATERIALS in the FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT and the procedures necessary to ensure that
they are safely stored, dispensed, used, and disposed of
according to LAW; Pf
(14) Identifying CRITICAL CONTROL POINTS in the operation from
purchasing through sale or service that when not controlled may
contribute to the transmission of foodborne illness and
explaining steps taken to ensure that the points are controlled in
accordance with the requirements of this Code; Pf
(15) Explaining the details of how the PERSON IN CHARGE and FOOD
EMPLOYEES comply with the HACCP PLAN if a plan is required by
the LAW, this Code, or an agreement between the REGULATORY
AUTHORITY and the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT; Pf
(16) Explaining the responsibilities, rights, and authorities assigned
by this Code to the:
(a) FOOD EMPLOYEE, Pf
(b) CONDITIONAL EMPLOYEE, Pf
(c) PERSON IN CHARGE, Pf
(d) REGULATORY AUTHORITY; Pf and
(17) Explaining how the PERSON IN CHARGE, FOOD EMPLOYEES, and
CONDITIONAL EMPLOYEES comply with reporting responsibilities
and EXCLUSION or RESTRICTION of FOOD EMPLOYEES. Pf
25

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 2. Management and Personnel
2-102.12 Certified Food Protection Manager
(A) The PERSON IN CHARGE shall be a certified FOOD protection manager who has
shown proficiency of required information through passing a test that is part of
an ACCREDITED PROGRAM.
(B) This section does not apply to certain types of FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS deemed
by the REGULATORY AUTHORITY to pose minimal RISK of causing, or contributing
to, foodborne illness based on the nature of the operation and extent of FOOD
preparation.
2-102.20 Food Protection Manager Certification.
(A) A PERSON IN CHARGE who demonstrates knowledge by being a FOOD
protection manager that is certified by a FOOD protection manager certification
program that is evaluated and listed by a Conference for Food Protection-
recognized accrediting agency as conforming to the Conference for Food
Protection Standard for Accreditation of FOOD Protection Manager
Certification Programs is deemed to comply with ¶2-102.11(B).
(B) A FOOD ESTABLISHMENT that has a PERSON IN CHARGE that is certified by a FOOD
protection manager certification program that is evaluated and listed by a
Conference for FOOD Protection-recognized accrediting agency as conforming
to the Conference for FOOD Protection Standard for Accreditation of FOOD
Protection Manager Certification Programs is deemed to comply with
§2-102.12.
2-103 Duties
2-103.11 Person in Charge.
The person in charge shall ensure that:
(A) FOOD ESTABLISHMENT operations are not conducted in a private home or in
a room used as living or sleeping quarters as specified under § 6-202.111;
Pf
(B) PERSONS unnecessary to the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT operation are not
allowed in the FOOD preparation, FOOD storage, or WAREWASHING areas,
except that brief visits and tours may be authorized by the PERSON IN
CHARGE if steps are taken to ensure that exposed FOOD; clean EQUIPMENT,
UTENSILS, and LINENS; and unwrapped SINGLE-SERVICE and SINGLE-USE
ARTICLES are protected from contamination; Pf
(C) EMPLOYEES and other PERSONS such as delivery and maintenance
PERSONS and pesticide applicators entering the FOOD preparation, FOOD
storage, and WAREWASHING areas comply with this Code; Pf
(D) EMPLOYEES are effectively cleaning their hands, by routinely monitoring the
EMPLOYEES' handwashing; Pf
26

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 2. Management and Personnel
(E) EMPLOYEES are visibly observing FOODS as they are received to determine
that they are from APPROVED sources, delivered at the required
temperatures, protected from contamination, UNADULTERATED, and
accurately presented, by routinely monitoring the EMPLOYEES’ observations
and periodically evaluating FOODS upon their receipt; Pf
(F) EMPLOYEES are verifying that FOODS delivered to the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT
during non-operating hours are from APPROVED sources and are placed
into appropriate storage locations such that they are maintained at the
required temperatures, protected from contamination, unADULTERATED,
and accurately presented; Pf
(G) EMPLOYEES are properly cooking TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY
FOOD, being particularly careful in cooking those FOODS known to cause
severe foodborne illness and death, such as EGGS and COMMINUTED
MEATS, through daily oversight of the EMPLOYEES' routine monitoring of the
cooking temperatures using appropriate temperature measuring devices
properly scaled and calibrated as specified under § 4-203.11 and
¶ 4-502.11(B); Pf
(H) EMPLOYEES are using proper methods to rapidly cool TIME/TEMPERATURE
CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOODS that are not held hot or are not for
consumption within 4 hours, through daily oversight of the EMPLOYEES'
routine monitoring of FOOD temperatures during cooling; Pf
(I) EMPLOYEES are properly maintaining the temperatures of
TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOODS during hot and cold
holding through daily oversight of the EMPLOYEES’ routine monitoring of
FOOD temperatures; Pf
(J) FOOD EMPLOYEES are properly maintaining the temperature of
TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOODS during thawing through
daily oversight of the FOOD EMPLOYEE’S routine monitoring of FOOD
temperatures; Pf
(K) CONSUMERS who order raw or partially cooked READY-TO-EAT FOODS of
animal origin are informed as specified under § 3-603.11 that the FOOD is
not cooked sufficiently to ensure its safety; Pf
(L) EMPLOYEES are properly SANITIZING cleaned multiuse EQUIPMENT and
UTENSILS before they are reused through routine monitoring of solution
temperature and exposure time for hot water SANITIZING, and chemical
concentration, pH, temperature, and exposure time for chemical
SANITIZING; Pf
(M)CONSUMERS are notified that clean TABLEWARE is to be used when they
return to self-service areas such as salad bars and buffets as specified
under § 3-304.16; Pf
(N) Except when APPROVAL is obtained from the REGULATORY AUTHORITY as
specified in ¶ 3-301.11(E), EMPLOYEES are preventing cross-contamination
27

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 2. Management and Personnel
of READY-TO-EAT food with bare hands by properly using suitable UTENSILS
such as deli tissue, spatulas, tongs, single-use gloves, or dispensing
EQUIPMENT; Pf
(O) EMPLOYEES are properly trained in FOOD safety, including FOOD allergy
awareness, as it relates to their assigned duties. FOOD allergy awareness
includes describing FOODS identified as MAJOR FOOD ALLERGENS and the
symptoms that a MAJOR FOOD ALLERGEN could cause in a sensitive
individual who has an allergic reaction; Pf
(P) FOOD EMPLOYEES and CONDITIONAL EMPLOYEES are informed in a verifiable
manner of their responsibility to report in accordance with LAW, to the
PERSON IN CHARGE, information about their health and activities as they
relate to diseases that are transmissible through FOOD, as specified under
¶ 2-201.11(A); Pf and
(Q) Written procedures and plans, where specified by this Code and as
developed by the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT, are maintained and implemented
as required. Pf
2-2 Employee Health
2-201 Responsibilities of Permit Holder, Person in Charge, and Conditional
Employees
2-201.11 Responsibilities of Permit Holder, Person in Charge and
Conditional Employees.
(A) The PERMIT HOLDER shall require FOOD EMPLOYEES and CONDITIONAL
EMPLOYEES to report to the PERSON IN CHARGE information about their health
and activities as they relate to diseases that are transmissible through FOOD.
A FOOD EMPLOYEE or CONDITIONAL EMPLOYEE shall report the information in a
manner that allows the PERSON IN CHARGE to reduce the RISK of foodborne
disease transmission, including providing necessary additional information,
such as the date of onset of symptoms and an illness, or of a diagnosis
without symptoms, if the FOOD EMPLOYEE or CONDITIONAL EMPLOYEE:
Reportable symptoms
(1) Has any of the following symptoms:
(a) Vomiting, P
(b) Diarrhea, P
(c) Jaundice, P
(d) Sore throat with fever, P or
28

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 2. Management and Personnel
(e) A lesion containing pus such as a boil or infected wound that is
open or draining and is:
(i) On the hands or wrists, unless an impermeable cover
such as a finger cot or stall protects the lesion and a
SINGLE-USE glove is worn over the impermeable cover, P
(ii) On exposed portions of the arms, unless the lesion is
protected by an impermeable cover, P or
(iii) On other parts of the body, unless the lesion is covered
by a dry, durable, tight-fitting bandage; P
Reportable diagnosis
(2) Has an illness diagnosed by a HEALTH PRACTITIONER due to:
(a) Norovirus, P
(b) Hepatitis A virus, P
(c) Shigella spp., P
(d) Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli, P
(e) Typhoid fever (caused by Salmonella Typhi) P or
(f) Salmonella (nontyphoidal);P
Reportable past illness
(3) Had Typhoid fever, diagnosed by a health practitioner, within the past
three (3) months, without having received antibiotic therapy, as
determined by a health practitioner; P
Reportable history of exposure
(4) Has been exposed to, or is the suspected source of, a confirmed
disease outbreakbecause the food employee or conditional employee
consumed or prepared food implicated in the outbreak, or consumed
food at an event prepared by a person who is infected or ill with
(a) Norovirus within the past 48 hours of the last exposure, P
(b) SHIGA TOXIN-PRODUCING ESCHERICHIA COLI or Shigella spp. within
the past 3 days of the last exposure, P
(c) Typhoid fever : within the past 14 days of the last exposure, P or
(d) Hepatitis A virus within the past 30 days of the last exposure; P
or
29

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 2. Management and Personnel
Reportable history of exposure
(5) Has been exposed by attending or working in a setting where there is a
CONFIRMED DISEASE OUTBREAK, or living in the same household as, and
has knowledge about, an individual who works or attends a setting
where there is a CONFIRMED DISEASE OUTBREAK, or living in the same
household as, and has knowledge about, an individual diagnosed with
an illness caused by:
(a) Norovirus within the past 48 hours of the last exposure, P
(b) SHIGA TOXIN-PRODUCING ESCHERICHIA COLI or Shigella spp. within
the past 3 days of the last exposure, P
(c) Typhoid fever (caused by Salmonella Typhi) within the past 14
days of the last exposure, P or
(d) Hepatitis A virus within the past 30 days of the last exposure. P
Responsibility of person in charge to notify the regulatory authority
(B) The PERSON IN CHARGE shall notify the regulatory authority when a food
employee is:
(1) Jaundiced, Pf or
(2) Diagnosed with an illness due to a pathogen as specified under
Subparagraphs (A)(2)(a) - (f) of this section. Pf
Responsibility of the person in charge to prohibit a conditional employee from becoming
a food employee
(C) The PERSON IN CHARGE shall ensure that a CONDITIONAL EMPLOYEE:
(1) Who exhibits or reports a symptom, or who reports a diagnosed illness
as specified under Subparagraphs (A)(1) - (3) of this section, is
prohibited from becoming a FOOD EMPLOYEE until the CONDITIONAL
EMPLOYEE meets the criteria for the specific symptoms or diagnosed
illness as specified under § 2-201.13; P and
(2) Who will work as a FOOD EMPLOYEE in a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT that
serves as a HIGHLY SUSCEPTIBLE POPULATIONand reports a history of
exposure as specified under Subparagraphs (A)(4) – (5), is prohibited
from becoming a FOOD EMPLOYEE until the CONDITIONAL EMPLOYEE
meets the criteria as specified under ¶ 2-201.13(J). P
30

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 2. Management and Personnel
Responsibility of the person in charge to exclude or restrict
(D) The PERSON IN CHARGE shall ensure that a FOOD EMPLOYEE who exhibits or
reports a symptom, or who reports a diagnosed illness or a history of
exposure as specified under Subparagraphs (A)(1) - (5) of this section is:
(1) EXCLUDED as specified under ¶¶ 2-201.12 (A) - (C), and
Subparagraphs (D)(1), (E)(1), (F)(1), or (H)(1) and in compliance with
the provisions specified under ¶¶ 2-201.13(A) - (H); P or
(2) RESTRICTED as specified under Subparagraphs 2-201.12 (D)(2), (E)(2),
(F)(2), (G), (H)(2), or ¶¶ 2-201.12(I) or (J) and in compliance with the
provisions specified under ¶¶ 2-201.13(D) - (J). P
Responsibility of food employees and conditional employees to report
(E) A FOOD EMPLOYEE or CONDITIONAL EMPLOYEE shall report to the PERSON IN
CHARGE the information as specified under ¶ (A) of this section. Pf
Responsibility of food employees to comply
(F) A FOOD EMPLOYEE shall: Comply with an EXCLUSION as specified under ¶¶
2-201.12(A) - (C) and Subparagraphs 2-201.12(D)(1), (E)(1), (F)(1), (G), or
(H)(1) and with the provisions specified under ¶¶ 2-201.13(A) - (H); P or
(1) Comply with a RESTRICTION as specified under Subparagraphs
2-201.12(D)(2), (E)(2), (F)(2), (G), (H)(2), or ¶¶ 2-201.12 (H), (I), or (J)
and comply with the provisions specified under ¶¶ 2-201.13(D) - (J). P
Conditions of exclusion and restriction
2-201.12 Exclusions and Restrictions.
The PERSON IN CHARGE shall EXCLUDE or RESTRICT a FOOD EMPLOYEE from a FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT in accordance with the following:
Symptomatic with vomiting or diarrhea
(A) Except when the symptom is from a noninfectious condition, EXCLUDE
a FOOD EMPLOYEE if the FOOD EMPLOYEE is:
(1) Symptomatic with vomiting or diarrhea; P or
(2) Symptomatic with vomiting or diarrhea and diagnosed with an
infection from Norovirus, Shigella spp., Salmonella (nontyphoidal) ,
or SHIGA TOXIN-PRODUCING E. coli. P
31

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 2. Management and Personnel
Jaundiced or diagnosed with hepatitis A infection
(B) EXCLUDE a FOOD EMPLOYEE who is:
(1) Jaundiced and the onset of jaundice occurred within the last 7
calendar days, unless the FOOD EMPLOYEE provides to the
PERSON IN CHARGE written medical documentation from a HEALTH
PRACTITIONER specifying that the jaundice is not caused by
hepatitis A virus or other fecal-orally transmitted infection; P
(2) Diagnosed with an infection from hepatitis A virus within 14
calendar days from the onset of any illness symptoms, or within
7 calendar days of the onset of jaundice; P or
(3) Diagnosed with an infection from hepatitis A virus without
developing symptoms. P
Diagnosed or reported previous illness with Typhoid Fever
(C) EXCLUDE a FOOD EMPLOYEE who is diagnosed with Typhoid fever, or
reports having had Typhoid fever within the past 3 months as specified
under Subparagraph 2-201.11(A)(3). P
Diagnosed with an asymptomatic infection from Norovirus
(D) If a FOOD EMPLOYEE is diagnosed with an infection from Norovirus and
is ASYMPTOMATIC:
(1) EXCLUDE the FOOD EMPLOYEE who works in a FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT serving a HIGHLY SUSCEPTIBLE POPULATION; P or
(2) RESTRICT the FOOD EMPLOYEE who works in a FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT not serving a HIGHLY SUSCEPTIBLE POPULATION. P
Diagnosed with Shigella spp. infection and asymptomatic
(E) If a FOOD EMPLOYEE is diagnosed with an infection from Shigella spp.
and is ASYMPTOMATIC:
(1) EXCLUDE the FOOD EMPLOYEE who works in a FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT serving a HIGHLY SUSCEPTIBLE POPULATION; P or
(2) RESTRICT the FOOD EMPLOYEE who works in a FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT not serving a HIGHLY SUSCEPTIBLE POPULATION. P
32

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 2. Management and Personnel
Diagnosed with STEC and asymptomatic
(F) If a FOOD EMPLOYEE is diagnosed with an infection from SHIGA TOXIN-
PRODUCING E. coli, and is ASYMPTOMATIC:
(1) EXCLUDE the FOOD EMPLOYEE who works in a FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT serving a HIGHLY SUSCEPTIBLE POPULATION; P or
(2) RESTRICT the FOOD EMPLOYEE who works in a FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT not serving a HIGHLY SUSCEPTIBLE POPULATION. P
Diagnosed with nontyphoidal Salmonella and asymptomatic
(G) If a FOOD EMPLOYEE is diagnosed with an infection from Salmonella
(nontyphoidal) and is ASYMPTOMATIC, RESTRICT the FOOD EMPLOYEE who
works in a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT serving a HIGHLY SUSCEPTIBLE
POPULATION or in a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT not serving a HIGHLY
SUSCEPTIBLE POPULATION. P
Symptomatic with sore throat with fever
(H) If a FOOD EMPLOYEE is ill with symptoms of acute onset of sore throat
with fever:
(1) EXCLUDE the FOOD EMPLOYEE who works in a FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT serving a HIGHLY SUSCEPTIBLE POPULATION; P or
(2) RESTRICT the FOOD EMPLOYEE who works in a FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT not serving a HIGHLY SUSCEPTIBLE POPULATION. P
Symptomatic with uncovered infected wound or pustular boil
(I) If a FOOD EMPLOYEE is infected with a skin lesion containing pus such as
a boil or infected wound that is open or draining and not properly
covered as specified under Subparagraph 2-201.11(A)(1)(e), RESTRICT
the FOOD EMPLOYEE. P
Exposed to foodborne pathogen and works in food establishment serving HSP
(J) If a FOOD EMPLOYEE is exposed to a foodborne pathogen as specified
under Subparagraphs 2-201.11(A)(4)(a-d) or 2-201.11(A)(5)(a-d),
RESTRICT the FOOD EMPLOYEE who works in a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT
serving a HIGHLY SUSCEPTIBLE POPULATION. P
33

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 2. Management and Personnel
Managing Exclusions and Restrictions
2-201.13 Removal, Adjustment, or Retention of Exclusions and Restrictions
The PERSON IN CHARGE shall adhere to the following conditions when removing,
adjusting, or retaining the exclusion or restriction of a FOOD EMPLOYEE:
(A) Except when a FOOD EMPLOYEE is diagnosed with Typhoid fever or an
infection from hepatitis A virus:
Removing exclusion for food employee who was symptomatic and not diagnosed
(1) Reinstate a FOOD EMPLOYEE who was EXCLUDED as specified
under Subparagraph 2-201.12(A)(1) if the FOOD EMPLOYEE:
(a) Is ASYMPTOMATIC for at least 24 hours; P or
(b) Provides to the PERSON IN CHARGE written medical
documentation from a HEALTH PRACTITIONER that states
the symptom is from a noninfectious condition. P
Norovirus diagnosis
(2) If a FOOD EMPLOYEE was diagnosed with an infection from
Norovirus and EXCLUDED as specified under Subparagraph
2-201.12(A)(2):
Adjusting exclusion for food employee who was symptomatic and is now asymptomatic
(a) RESTRICT the FOOD EMPLOYEE, who is ASYMPTOMATIC for
at least 24 hours and works in a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT not
serving a HIGHLY SUSCEPTIBLE POPULATION, until the
conditions for reinstatement as specified under
Subparagraphs (D)(1) or (2) of this section are met; P or
Retaining exclusion for food employee who was asymptomatic and is now
asymptomatic and works in food establishment serving HSP
(b) Retain the EXCLUSION for the FOOD EMPLOYEE, who is
ASYMPTOMATIC for at least 24 hours and works in a FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT that serves a HIGHLY SUSCEPTIBLE
POPULATION, until the conditions for reinstatement as
specified under Subparagraphs (D)(1) or (2) of this
section are met. P
34

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 2. Management and Personnel
Shigella spp. diagnosis
(3) If a FOOD EMPLOYEE was diagnosed with an infection from
Shigella spp. and EXCLUDED as specified under Subparagraph
2-201.12(A)(2):
Adjusting exclusion for food employee who was symptomatic and is now asymptomatic
(a) RESTRICT the FOOD EMPLOYEE, who is ASYMPTOMATIC for
at least 24 hours and works in a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT not
serving a HIGHLY SUSCEPTIBLE POPULATION, until the
conditions for reinstatement as specified under
Subparagraphs (E)(1) or (2) of this section are met; P or
Retaining exclusion for food employee who was asymptomatic and is now
asymptomatic
(b) Retain the EXCLUSION for the FOOD EMPLOYEE, who is
ASYMPTOMATIC for at least 24 hours and works in a FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT that serves a HIGHLY SUSCEPTIBLE
POPULATION, until the conditions for reinstatement as
specified under Subparagraphs (E)(1) or (2) , or (E)(1)
and (3)(a) of this section are met. P
STEC diagnosis
(4) If a FOOD EMPLOYEE was diagnosed with an infection from SHIGA
TOXIN-PRODUCING ESCHERICHIA COLI and EXCLUDED as specified
under Subparagraph 2-201.12(A)(2):
Adjusting exclusion for food employee who was symptomatic and is now asymptomatic
(a) RESTRICT the FOOD EMPLOYEE, who is ASYMPTOMATIC for
at least 24 hours and works in a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT not
serving a HIGHLY SUSCEPTIBLE POPULATION, until the
conditions for reinstatement as specified under
Subparagraphs (F)(1) or (2) of this section are met; P or
Retaining exclusion for food employee who was symptomatic and is now asymptomatic
and works in food establishment serving HSP
(b) Retain the EXCLUSION for the FOOD EMPLOYEE, who is
ASYMPTOMATIC for at least 24 hours and works in a FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT that serves a HIGHLY SUSCEPTIBLE
POPULATION, until the conditions for reinstatement as
specified under Subparagraphs (F)(1) or (2) are met. P
35

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 2. Management and Personnel
Nontyphoidal Salmonella Diagnosis
(5) If a FOOD EMPLOYEE was diagnosed with an infection from
Salmonella (nontyphoidal) and EXCLUDED as specified under
Subparagraph 2-201.12(A)(2):
Adjusting exclusion for food employee who was symptomatic and is now asymptomatic
(a) RESTRICT the FOOD EMPLOYEE, who is ASYMPTOMATIC for at
least 30 days until conditions for reinstatement as
specified under Subparagraphs (G)(1) or (2) of this
section are met; P or
Retaining exclusion for food employee that remains symptomatic
(b) Retain the EXCLUSION for the FOOD EMPLOYEE who is
SYMPTOMATIC, until conditions for reinstatement as
specified under Paragraphs (G)(1) or (G)(2) of this
section are met. P
Hepatitis A virus or jaundice diagnosis - removing exclusions
(B) Reinstate a FOOD EMPLOYEE who was EXCLUDED as specified under ¶
2-201.12(B) if the PERSON IN CHARGE obtains APPROVAL from the
REGULATORY AUTHORITY and one of the following conditions is met;
(1) The FOOD EMPLOYEE has been jaundiced for more than 7
calendar days; P
(2) The anicteric FOOD EMPLOYEE has been symptomatic with
symptoms other than jaundice for more than 14 calendar days; P
or
(3) The FOOD EMPLOYEE provides to the PERSON IN CHARGE written
medical documentation from a HEALTH PRACTITIONER stating that
the FOOD EMPLOYEE is free of a hepatitis A virus infection. P
Typhoid fever diagnosis - removing exclusions
(C) Reinstate a FOOD EMPLOYEE who was EXCLUDED as specified under ¶
2-201.12(C) if:
(1) The PERSON IN CHARGE obtains APPROVAL from the REGULATORY
AUTHORITY; P and
(2) The FOOD EMPLOYEE provides to the PERSON IN CHARGE written
medical documentation from a HEALTH PRACTITIONER that states
the FOOD EMPLOYEE is free from typhoid fever. P
36

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 2. Management and Personnel
Norovirus Diagnosis - Removing Exclusion or Restriction
(D) Reinstate a FOOD EMPLOYEE who was EXCLUDED as specified under
Subparagraphs 2-201.12(A)(2) or (D)(1) who was RESTRICTED under
Subparagraph 2-201.12(D)(2) if the PERSON IN CHARGE obtains
APPROVAL from the REGULATORY AUTHORITY and one of the following
conditions is met:
(1) The EXCLUDED or RESTRICTED FOOD EMPLOYEE provides to the
PERSON IN CHARGE written medical documentation from a HEALTH
PRACTITIONER stating that the FOOD EMPLOYEE is free of a
Norovirus infection; P
(2) The FOOD EMPLOYEE was EXCLUDED or RESTRICTED after
symptoms of vomiting or diarrhea resolved, and more than 48
hours have passed since the FOOD EMPLOYEE became
ASYMPTOMATIC; P or
(3) The FOOD EMPLOYEE was EXCLUDED or RESTRICTED and did not
develop symptoms and more than 48 hours have passed since
the FOOD EMPLOYEE was diagnosed. P
Shigella spp. Diagnosis - Removing Exclusion or Restriction
(E) Reinstate a FOOD EMPLOYEE who was EXCLUDED as specified under
Subparagraphs 2-201.12(A)(2) or (E)(1) or who was RESTRICTED under
Subparagraph 2-201.12(E)(2) if the PERSON IN CHARGE obtains
APPROVAL from the REGULATORY AUTHORITY and one of the following
conditions is met:
(1) The EXCLUDED or RESTRICTED FOOD EMPLOYEE provides to the
PERSON IN CHARGE written medical documentation from a HEALTH
PRACTITIONER stating that the FOOD EMPLOYEE is free of a
Shigella spp. infection based on test results showing 2
consecutive negative stool specimen cultures that are taken:
(a) Not earlier than 48 hours after discontinuance of
antibiotics, P and
(b) At least 24 hours apart; P
(2) The FOOD EMPLOYEE was EXCLUDED or RESTRICTED after
symptoms of vomiting or diarrhea resolved, and more than 7
calendar days have passed since the FOOD EMPLOYEE became
ASYMPTOMATIC; P or
(3) The FOOD EMPLOYEE was EXCLUDED or RESTRICTED and did not
develop symptoms and more than 7 calendar days have passed
since the FOOD EMPLOYEE was diagnosed. P
37

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 2. Management and Personnel
STEC diagnosis - removing exclusion or restriction
(F) Reinstate a FOOD EMPLOYEE who was EXCLUDED or RESTRICTED as
specified under Subparagraphs 2-201.12(A)(2) or (F)(1) or who was
RESTRICTED under Subparagraph 2-201.12(F)(2) if the PERSON IN
CHARGE obtains APPROVAL from the REGULATORY AUTHORITY and one of
the following conditions is met:
(1) The EXCLUDED or RESTRICTED FOOD EMPLOYEE provides to the
PERSON IN CHARGE written medical documentation from a HEALTH
PRACTITIONER stating that the FOOD EMPLOYEE is free of an
infection from SHIGA TOXIN-PRODUCING ESCHERICHIA COLI based
on test results that show 2 consecutive negative stool specimen
cultures that are taken:
(a) Not earlier than 48 hours after discontinuance of
antibiotics; P and
(b) At least 24 hours apart; P
(2) The FOOD EMPLOYEE was EXCLUDED or RESTRICTED after
symptoms of vomiting or diarrhea resolved and more than 7
calendar days have passed since the FOOD EMPLOYEE became
ASYMPTOMATIC; P or
(3) The FOOD EMPLOYEE was EXCLUDED or RESTRICTED and did not
develop symptoms and more than 7 days have passed since
the FOOD EMPLOYEE was diagnosed. P
Nontyphoidal Salmonella - removing exclusion or restriction
(G) Reinstate a FOOD EMPLOYEE who was EXCLUDED as specified under
Subparagraph 2-201.12(A)(2) or who was RESTRICTED as specified
under ¶ 2-201.12(G) if the PERSON IN CHARGE obtains APPROVAL from
the REGULATORY AUTHORITY P and one of the following conditions is met:
(1) The EXCLUDED or RESTRICTED FOOD EMPLOYEE provides to the
PERSON IN CHARGE written medical documentation from a HEALTH
PRACTITIONER stating that the FOOD EMPLOYEE is free of a
Salmonella (nontyphoidal) infection based on test results
showing 2 consecutive negative stool specimen cultures that
are taken;
(a) Not earlier than 48 hours after discontinuance of
antibiotics, P and
(b) At least 24 hours apart; P
(2) The FOOD EMPLOYEE was RESTRICTED after symptoms of vomiting
or diarrhea resolved, and more than 30 days have passed since
the FOOD EMPLOYEE became ASYMPTOMATIC; P or
38

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 2. Management and Personnel
(3) The FOOD EMPLOYEE was EXCLUDED or RESTRICTED and did not
develop symptoms and more than 30 days have passed since
the FOOD EMPLOYEE was diagnosed. P
Sore throat with fever - removing exclusion or restriction
(H) Reinstate a FOOD EMPLOYEE who was EXCLUDED or RESTRICTED as
specified under Subparagraphs 2-201.12(H)(1) or (2) if the FOOD
EMPLOYEE provides to the PERSON IN CHARGE written medical
documentation from a HEALTH PRACTITIONER stating that the FOOD
EMPLOYEE meets one of the following conditions:
(1) Has received antibiotic therapy for Streptococcus pyogenes
infection for more than 24 hours; P
(2) Has at least one negative throat specimen culture for
Streptococcus pyogenes infection; P or
(3) Is otherwise determined by a HEALTH PRACTITIONER to be free of
a Streptococcus pyogenes infection. P
Uncovered infected wound or pustular boil - removing restriction
(I) Reinstate a FOOD EMPLOYEE who was RESTRICTED as specified under ¶
2-201.12(I) if the skin, infected wound, cut, or pustular boil is properly
covered with one of the following:
(1) An impermeable cover such as a finger cot or stall and a single-
use glove over the impermeable cover if the infected wound or
pustular boil is on the hand, finger, or wrist; P
(2) An impermeable cover on the arm if the infected wound or
pustular boil is on the arm; Por
(3) A dry, durable, tight-fitting bandage if the infected wound or
pustular boil is on another part of the body. P
Exposure to foodborne pathogen and works in food establishment serving HSP –
removing restriction
(J) Reinstate a FOOD EMPLOYEE who was RESTRICTED as specified under
¶ 2-201.12(J) and was exposed to one of the following pathogens as
specified under Subparagraph 2-201.11(A)(4)(a-d) or 2-201.11(A)(5)(a-
d):
39

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 2. Management and Personnel
Norovirus
(1) Norovirus and one of the following conditions is met:
(a) More than 48 hours have passed since the last day the
FOOD EMPLOYEE was potentially exposed; P or
(b) More than 48 hours have passed since the FOOD
EMPLOYEE’S household contact became ASYMPTOMATIC. P
Shigella spp. or STEC
(2) Shigella spp. or SHIGA TOXIN-PRODUCING ESCHERICHIA COLI and
one of the following conditions is met:
(a) More than 3 calendar days have passed since the last
day the FOOD EMPLOYEE was potentially exposed; P or
(b) More than 3 calendar days have passed since the FOOD
EMPLOYEE’S household contact became ASYMPTOMATIC. P
Typhoid fever (S. Typhi)
(3) Typhoid fever (caused by Salmonella Typhi) and one of the
following conditions is met:
(a) More than 14 calendar days have passed since the last
day the FOOD EMPLOYEE was potentially exposed; P or
(b) More than 14 calendar days have passed since the FOOD
EMPLOYEE’S household contact became ASYMPTOMATIC. P
Hepatitis A
(4) Hepatitis A virus and one of the following conditions is met:
(a) The FOOD EMPLOYEE is immune to hepatitis A virus
infection because of a prior illness from hepatitis A; P
(b) The FOOD EMPLOYEE is immune to hepatitis A virus
infection because of vaccination against hepatitis A; P
(c) The FOOD EMPLOYEE is immune to hepatitis A virus
infection because of IgG administration; P
(d) More than 30 calendar days have passed since the last
day the FOOD EMPLOYEE was potentially exposed; P
(e) More than 30 calendar days have passed since the FOOD
EMPLOYEE’S household contact became jaundiced; P or
(f) The FOOD EMPLOYEE does not use an alternative
procedure that allows bare hand contact with READY-TO-
40

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 2. Management and Personnel
EAT FOOD until at least 30 days after the potential
exposure, as specified in Subparagraphs (I)(4)(d) and (e)
of this section, and the FOOD EMPLOYEE receives
additional training about:
(i) Hepatitis A symptoms and preventing the
transmission of infection, P
(ii) Proper handwashing procedures, P and
(iii) Protecting READY-TO-EAT food from contamination
introduced by bare hand contact. P
2-3 Personal Cleanliness
Subparts:
2-301 Hands and Arms
2-302 Fingernails
2-303 Jewelry
2-304 Outer Clothing
2-301 Hands and Arms
2-301.11 Clean Condition.
FOOD EMPLOYEES shall keep their hands and exposed portions of their arms clean. P
2-301.12 Cleaning Procedure.
(A) Except as specified in ¶ (D) of this section, FOOD EMPLOYEES shall clean their
hands and exposed portions of their arms, including surrogate prosthetic
devices for hands or arms for at least 20 seconds, using a cleaning
compound in a HANDWASHING SINK that is equipped as specified under
§ 5-202.12 and Subpart 6-301. P
(B) FOOD EMPLOYEES shall use the following cleaning procedure in the order
stated to clean their hands and exposed portions of their arms, including
surrogate prosthetic devices for hands and arms:
(1) Rinse under clean, running warm water; P
(2) Apply an amount of cleaning compound recommended by the cleaning
compound manufacturer; P
(3) Rub together vigorously for at least 10 to 15 seconds while:
(a) Paying particular attention to removing soil from underneath the
fingernails during the cleaning procedure, P and
41

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 2. Management and Personnel
(b) Creating friction on the surfaces of the hands and arms or
surrogate prosthetic devices for hands and arms, fingertips, and
areas between the fingers; P
(4) Thoroughly rinse under clean, running warm water; P and
(5) Immediately follow the cleaning procedure with thorough drying using a
method as specified under § 6-301.12. P
(C) To avoid re-contaminating their hands or surrogate prosthetic devices, FOOD
EMPLOYEES may use disposable paper towels or similar clean barriers when
touching surfaces such as manually operated faucet handles on a
HANDWASHING SINK or the handle of a restroom door.
(D) If APPROVED and capable of removing the types of soils encountered in the
FOOD operations involved, an automatic handwashing facility may be used by
FOOD EMPLOYEES to clean their hands or surrogate prosthetic devices.
2-301.13 Special Handwash Procedures.
Reserved.
2-301.14 When to Wash.
FOOD EMPLOYEES shall clean their hands and exposed portions of their arms as
specified under § 2-301.12 immediately before engaging in FOOD preparation
including working with exposed FOOD, clean EQUIPMENT and UTENSILS, and
unwrapped SINGLE-SERVICE and SINGLE-USE ARTICLES P and:
(A) After touching bare human body parts other than clean hands and
clean, exposed portions of arms; P
(B) After using the toilet room; P
(C) After caring for or handling SERVICE ANIMALS or aquatic animals as
specified in ¶ 2-403.11(B); P
(D) Except as specified in ¶ 2-401.11(B), after coughing, sneezing, using a
handkerchief or disposable tissue, using TOBACCO PRODUCTS, eating, or
drinking; P
(E) After handling soiled EQUIPMENT or UTENSILS; P
(F) During FOOD preparation, as often as necessary to remove soil and
contamination and to prevent cross contamination when changing
tasks; P
(G) When switching between working with raw FOOD and working with
READY-TO-EAT FOOD; P
(H) Before donning gloves to initiate a task that involves working with
FOOD; P and
(I) After engaging in other activities that contaminate the hands. P
42

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 2. Management and Personnel
2-301.15 Where to Wash.
FOOD EMPLOYEES shall clean their hands in a HANDWASHING SINK or APPROVED
automatic handwashing facility and may not clean their hands in a sink used for
FOOD preparation or WAREWASHING, or in a service sink or a curbed cleaning
facility used for the disposal of mop water and similar liquid waste. Pf
2-301.16 Hand Antiseptics
(A) A hand antiseptic used as a topical application, a hand antiseptic solution
used as a hand dip, or a hand antiseptic soap shall:
(1) Comply with one of the following:
(a) Be an APPROVED drug that is listed in the FDA publication
Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence
Evaluations as an APPROVED drug based on safety and
effectiveness; Pf or
(b) Have active antimicrobial ingredients that are listed in the FDA
monograph for OTC Health-Care Antiseptic Drug Products as
an antiseptic handwash, Pf and
(2) Consist only of components which the intended use of each complies
with one of the following:
(a) A threshold of regulation exemption under 21 CFR 170.39 -
Threshold of regulation for substances used in FOOD-contact
articles; Pf or
(b) 21 CFR 178 - Indirect FOOD Additives: Adjuvants, Production
Aids, and Sanitizers as regulated for use as a FOOD ADDITIVE
with conditions of safe use, Pf or,
(c) A determination of generally recognized as safe (GRAS). Partial
listings of substances with FOOD uses that are GRAS may be
found in 21 CFR 182 - Substances Generally Recognized as
Safe, 21 CFR 184 - Direct FOOD Substances Affirmed as
Generally Recognized as Safe, or 21 CFR 186 – Indirect FOOD
Substances Affirmed as Generally Recognized as Safe for use in
contact with FOOD, and in FDA’s Inventory of GRAS Notices, Pf or
(d) A prior sanction listed under 21 CFR 181 – Prior Sanctioned
FOOD Ingredients, Pf or
(e) a FOOD Contact Notification that is effective, PF and
(3) Be applied only to hands that are cleaned as specified under §
2-301.12. Pf
43

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 2. Management and Personnel
(B) If a hand antiseptic or a hand antiseptic solution used as a hand dip does not
meet the criteria specified under Subparagraph (A)(2) of this section, use
shall be:
(1) Followed by thorough hand rinsing in clean water before hand contact
with FOOD or using gloves; Pf or
(2) Limited to situations that involve no direct contact with FOOD by the
bare hands. Pf
(C) A hand antiseptic solution used as a hand dip shall be maintained clean and
at a strength equivalent to at least 100 MG/L chlorine. Pf
2-302 Fingernails
2-302.11 Maintenance.
(A) FOOD EMPLOYEES shall keep their fingernails trimmed, filed, and maintained so
the edges and surfaces are cleanable and not rough. Pf
(B) Unless wearing intact gloves in good repair, a FOOD EMPLOYEE may not wear
fingernail polish or artificial fingernails when working with exposed FOOD. Pf
2-303 Jewelry
2-303.11 Prohibition.
Except for a plain ring such as a wedding band, while preparing FOOD, FOOD
EMPLOYEES may not wear jewelry including medical information jewelry on their
arms and hands.
2-304 Outer Clothing
2-304.11 Clean Condition.
FOOD EMPLOYEES shall wear clean outer clothing to prevent contamination of
FOOD, EQUIPMENT, UTENSILS, LINENS, and SINGLE-SERVICE and SINGLE-USE ARTICLES.
2-4 Hygienic Practices
Subparts:
2-401 Food Contamination Prevention
2-402 Hair Restraints
2-403 Animals
44

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 2. Management and Personnel
2-401 Food Contamination Prevention
2-401.11 Eating, Drinking, or Using TOBACCO PRODUCTS.
(A) Except as specified in ¶ (B) of this section, an EMPLOYEE shall eat, drink, or
use any form of TOBACCO PRODUCTS only in designated areas where the
contamination of exposed FOOD; clean EQUIPMENT, UTENSILS, and LINENS;
unwrapped SINGLE-SERVICE and SINGLE-USE ARTICLES; or other items needing
protection cannot result.
(B) A FOOD EMPLOYEE may drink from a closed BEVERAGE container if the
container is handled to prevent contamination of:
(1) The EMPLOYEE'S hands;
(2) The container; and
(3) Exposed FOOD; clean EQUIPMENT, UTENSILS, AND LINENS; and unwrapped
SINGLE-SERVICE and SINGLE-USE articles.
2-401.12 Discharges from the Eyes, Nose, and Mouth.
FOOD EMPLOYEES experiencing persistent sneezing, coughing, or a runny nose
that causes discharges from the eyes, nose, or mouth may not work with
exposed FOOD; clean EQUIPMENT, UTENSILS, and LINENS; or unwrapped SINGLE-
SERVICE or SINGLE-USE ARTICLES.
2-401.13 Use of Bandages, Finger Cots, or Finger Stalls.
If used, an impermeable cover such as a bandage, finger cot or finger stall
located on the wrist, hand or finger of a FOOD EMPLOYEE working with exposed
FOOD shall be covered with a single-use glove.
2-402 Hair Restraints
2-402.11 Effectiveness.
(A) Except as provided in ¶ (B) of this section, FOOD EMPLOYEES shall wear hair
restraints such as hats, hair coverings or nets, beard restraints, and clothing
that covers body hair, that are designed and worn to effectively keep their hair
from contacting exposed FOOD; clean EQUIPMENT, UTENSILS, and LINENS; and
unwrapped SINGLE-SERVICE and SINGLE-USE ARTICLES.
(B) This section does not apply to FOOD EMPLOYEES such as counter staff who
only serve BEVERAGES and wrapped or PACKAGED FOODS, hostesses, and wait
staff if they present a minimal RISK of contaminating exposed FOOD; clean
EQUIPMENT, UTENSILS, and LINENS; and unwrapped SINGLE-SERVICE and SINGLE-
USE ARTICLES.
45

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 2. Management and Personnel
2-403 Animals
2-403.11 Handling Prohibition.
(A) Except as specified in ¶ (B) of this section, FOOD EMPLOYEES may not care for
or handle animals that may be present such as patrol dogs, SERVICE ANIMALS,
or pets that are allowed as specified in Subparagraphs 6-501.115(B)(2) - (5)
and (D). Pf
(B) FOOD EMPLOYEES with SERVICE ANIMALS may handle or care for their SERVICE
ANIMALS and FOOD EMPLOYEES may handle or care for FISH in aquariums or
MOLLUSCAN SHELLFISH or crustacea in display tanks if they wash their hands as
specified under § 2-301.12 and ¶ 2-301.14(C).
2-5 Responding to Contamination Events
2-501.11 Clean-up of Vomiting and Diarrheal Events.
A FOOD ESTABLISHMENT shall have written procedures for EMPLOYEES to follow
when responding to vomiting or diarrheal events that involve the discharge of
vomitus or fecal matter onto surfaces in the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. The
procedures shall address the specific actions EMPLOYEES must take to minimize
the spread of contamination and the exposure of EMPLOYEES, consumers, FOOD,
and surfaces to vomitus or fecal matter. Pf
46

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 3. Food
Chapter 3. Food
Parts:
3-1 Characteristics
3-2 Sources, Specifications, and Original Containers and Records
3-3 Protection from Contamination After Receiving
3-4 Destruction of Organisms of Public Health Concern
3-5 Limitation of Growth of Organisms of Public Health Concern
3-6 Food Identity, Presentation, and On-Premises Labeling
3-7 Contaminated Food
3-8 Special Requirements for Highly Susceptible Populations
3-1 Characteristics
3-101 Condition
3-101.11 Safe, Unadulterated, and Honestly Presented.
FOOD shall be safe, unADULTERATED, and, as specified under § 3-601.12,
honestly presented. P
3-2 Sources, Specifications, and Original Containers and Records
Subparts:
3-201 Sources
3-202 Specifications for Receiving
3-203 Original Containers and Records
3-204 Food Donation
3-201 Sources.
3-201.11 Compliance with Food Law.
(A) FOOD shall be obtained from sources that comply with LAW. P
(B) FOOD prepared in a private home may not be used or offered for human
consumption in a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. P
(C) PACKAGED FOOD shall be labeled as specified in LAW, including 21 CFR 101
FOOD Labeling, 9 CFR 317 Labeling, Marking Devices, and Containers, and 9
CFR 381 Subpart N Labeling and Containers, and as specified under § 3-
202.18.
47

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 3. Food
(D) FISH, other than those specified in paragraph 3-402.11(B), that are intended
for consumption in raw or undercooked form and allowed as specified in
paragraph 3-401.11(D), may be offered for sale or service if they are obtained
from a supplier that freezes the fish, as specified under § 3-402.11; or if they
are frozen on the PREMISES as specified under § 3-402.11 and records are
retained as specified under § 3-402.12.
(E) WHOLE-MUSCLE, INTACT BEEF steaks that are intended for consumption in an
undercooked form without a CONSUMER advisory as specified in ¶ 3-401.11(C)
shall be:
(1) Obtained from a FOOD PROCESSING PLANT that does not MECHANICALLY
TENDERIZE, vacuum tumble with solutions, reconstruct, cube or pound
these WHOLE-MUSCLE, INTACT BEEF steaks, Pf or
(2) Deemed acceptable by the REGULATORY AUTHORITY based on other
evidence, such as written buyer specifications or invoices, that
indicates that the steaks meet the definition of WHOLE-MUSCLE, INTACT
BEEF, Pf and
(3) If individually cut in a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT:
(a) Cut from WHOLE-MUSCLE INTACT BEEF that is received from a
FOOD PROCESSING PLANT as specified in Subparagraph (E)(1) of
this section or identified as specified in Subparagraph (E)(2) of
this section, P
(b) Prepared so they remain intact. Pf
(F) MEAT and POULTRY that is not a READY-TO-EAT FOOD and is in a PACKAGED form
when it is offered for sale or otherwise offered for consumption, shall be
labeled to include safe handling instructions as specified in LAW, including 9
CFR 317.2(l) and 9 CFR 381.125(b).
(G) EGGS that have not been specifically treated to destroy all viable
Salmonellae shall be labeled to include safe handling instructions as
specified in LAW, including 21 CFR 101.17(h).
3-201.12 Food in a Hermetically Sealed Container.
FOOD in a HERMETICALLY SEALED CONTAINER shall be obtained from a FOOD
PROCESSING PLANT that is regulated by the FOOD regulatory agency that has
jurisdiction over the plant. P
3-201.13 Fluid Milk and Milk Products.
Fluid milk and milk products shall be obtained from sources that comply with
GRADE A STANDARDS as specified in LAW. P
48

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 3. Food
3-201.14 Fish.
(A) FISH that are received for sale or service shall be:
(1) Commercially and legally caught or harvested; P or
(2) APPROVED for sale or service. P
(B) MOLLUSCAN SHELLFISH that are recreationally caught may not be received for
sale or service. P
3-201.15 Molluscan Shellfish.
(A) MOLLUSCAN SHELLFISH shall be obtained from sources according to LAW and
the requirements specified in the U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services, Public Health Service, Food and Drug Administration, National
Shellfish Sanitation Program Guide for the Control of Molluscan Shellfish. P
(B) MOLLUSCAN SHELLFISH received in interstate commerce shall be from sources
that are listed in the Interstate Certified Shellfish Shippers List. P
3-201.16 Wild Mushrooms.
(A) Except as specified in ¶ (B) of this section, mushroom species picked in the
wild shall not be offered for sale or service by a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT unless
the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT has been APPROVED to do so. P
(B) This section does not apply to:
(1) Cultivated wild mushroom species that are grown, harvested, and
processed in an operation that is regulated by the FOOD REGULATORY
AGENCY that has jurisdiction over the operation; or
(2) Wild mushroom species if they are in packaged form and are the
product of a food processing plant that is regulated by the FOOD
REGULATORY AGENCY that has jurisdiction over the plant.
3-201.17 Game Animals.
(A) If GAME ANIMALS are received for sale or service, they shall be:
(1) Commercially raised for FOOD P and:
(a) Raised, slaughtered, and processed under a voluntary
inspection program that is conducted by the agency that has
animal health jurisdiction, P or
(b) Under a routine inspection program conducted by a regulatory
agency other than the agency that has animal health
jurisdiction, P and
(c) Raised, slaughtered, and processed according to:
49

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 3. Food
(i) LAWS governing MEAT and POULTRY as determined by the
agency that has animal health jurisdiction and the agency
that conducts the inspection program, P and
(ii) Requirements which are developed by the agency that
has animal health jurisdiction and the agency that
conducts the inspection program with consideration of
factors such as the need for antemortem and postmortem
examination by an APPROVED veterinarian or
veterinarian’s designee; P
(2) Under a voluntary inspection program administered by the USDA for
game animals such as exotic animals (reindeer, elk, deer, antelope,
water buffalo, or bison) that are "inspected and APPROVED" in
accordance with 9 CFR 352 Exotic Animals; Voluntary Inspection or
rabbits that are "inspected and certified" in accordance with 9 CFR 354
Voluntary Inspection of Rabbits and Edible Products Thereof; P
(3) As allowed by LAW, for wild GAME ANIMALS that are live-caught:
(a) Under a routine inspection program conducted by a regulatory
agency such as the agency that has animal health jurisdiction, P
and
(b) Slaughtered and processed according to:
(i) LAWS governing MEAT and POULTRY as determined by the
agency that has animal health jurisdiction and the agency
that conducts the inspection program, P and
(ii) Requirements which are developed by the agency that
has animal health jurisdiction and the agency that
conducts the inspection program with consideration of
factors such as the need for antemortem and postmortem
examination by an APPROVED veterinarian or
veterinarian’s designee; P or
(4) As allowed by LAW, for field-dressed wild GAME ANIMALS under a routine
inspection program that ensures the animals:
(a) Receive a postmortem examination by an APPROVED
veterinarian or veterinarian's designee, P or
(b) Are field-dressed and transported according to requirements
specified by the agency that has animal health jurisdiction and
the agency that conducts the inspection program, P and
(c) Are processed according to LAWS governing MEAT and POULTRY
as determined by the agency that has animal health jurisdiction
and the agency that conducts the inspection program. P
50

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 3. Food
(B) A GAME ANIMAL may not be received for sale or service if it is a species of
wildlife that is listed in 50 CFR 17 Endangered and threatened wildlife and
plants.
3-202 Specifications for Receiving
3-202.11 Temperature.
(A) Except as specified in ¶ (B) of this section, refrigerated, TIME/TEMPERATURE
CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD shall be at a temperature of 5oC (41oF) or below
when received. P
(B) If a temperature other than 5°C (41°F) for a TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR
SAFETY FOOD is specified in LAW governing its distribution, such as LAWS
governing milk and MOLLUSCAN SHELLFISH, the FOOD may be received at the
specified temperature.
(C) Raw EGGS shall be received in refrigerated equipment that maintains an
ambient air temperature of 7°C (45°F) or less. P
(D) TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD that is cooked to a temperature
and for a time specified under §§ 3-401.11 - 3-401.13 and received hot shall
be at a temperature of 57°C (135°F) or above. P
(E) A FOOD that is labeled frozen and shipped frozen by a FOOD PROCESSING
PLANT shall be received frozen. Pf
(F) Upon receipt, TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD shall be free of
evidence of previous temperature abuse. Pf
3-202.12 Additives.
FOOD may not contain unAPPROVED FOOD ADDITIVES or ADDITIVES that exceed
amounts specified in 21 CFR 170-180 relating to FOOD ADDITIVES, generally
recognized as safe or prior sanctioned substances that exceed amounts
specified in 21 CFR 181-186, substances that exceed amounts specified in 9
CFR Subpart C Section 424.21(b) FOOD ingredients and sources of radiation, or
pesticide residues that exceed provisions specified in 40 CFR 180 Tolerances for
pesticides chemicals in FOOD, and exceptions. P
3-202.13 Eggs.
EGGS shall be received clean and sound and may not exceed the restricted EGG
tolerances for U.S. Consumer Grade B as specified in United States Standards,
Grades, and Weight Classes for Shell Eggs, AMS 56.200 et seq., administered
by the Agricultural Marketing Service of USDA. P
51

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 3. Food
3-202.14 Eggs and Milk Products, Pasteurized.
(A) EGG PRODUCTS shall be obtained pasteurized. P
(B) Fluid and dry milk and milk products shall:
(1) Be obtained pasteurized; P and
(2) Comply with GRADE A STANDARDS as specified in LAW. P
(C) Frozen milk products, such as ice cream, shall be obtained pasteurized as
specified in 21 CFR 135 - Frozen desserts. P
(D) Cheese shall be obtained pasteurized unless alternative procedures to
pasteurization are specified in the CFR, such as 21 CFR 133 - Cheeses and
related cheese products, for curing certain cheese varieties. P
3-202.15 Package Integrity.
FOOD packages shall be in good condition and protect the integrity of the
contents so that the FOOD is not exposed to ADULTERATION or potential
contaminants. Pf
3-202.16 Ice.
Ice for use as a FOOD or a cooling medium shall be made from DRINKING WATER. P
3-202.17 Shellstock, Condition.
When received by a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT, SHELLSTOCK shall be reasonably free
of mud, dead SHELLSTOCK, and SHELLSTOCK with broken shells. Dead SHELLSTOCK
with badly broken shells shall be discarded.
Packaging and Identification
3-202.18 Molluscan Shellfish, Packaging and Identification.
(A) Except as specified in sub ¶ (B)(1) of this section, MOLLUSCAN SHELLFISH shall
be obtained in nonreturnable packages or containers which bear a legible tag
or label that identifies the: Pf
(1) Source, and are affixed by a dealer that depurates, packs, ships or
reships the MOLLUSCAN SHELLFISH, as specified in the National Shellfish
Sanitation Program (NSSP) Guide for the Control of MOLLUSCAN
SHELLFISH (Model Ordinance); Pf and
(2) "Sell by" or "best if used by" date for SHUCKED SHELLFISH packages with
a capacity of less than 1.89 L (one-half gallon) or the date shucked for
packages with a capacity of 1.89 L (one-half gallon) or more. Pf
52

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 3. Food
(B) When a two-tag harvester or DEALER system is used, the DEALER tag shall
meet the requirements identified in (A)(1) of this section.
(1) When both the DEALER and harvester tags appear on the container, the
DEALER’S tag is not required to duplicate the information on the
harvester’s tag.
(C) A container of raw MOLLUSCAN SHELLFISH that does not bear a tag or label or
which bears a tag or label which does not contain all the information as
specified under the Model Ordinance shall be subject to a hold order, as
allowed by LAW, or seizure and destruction in accordance with 21 CFR
Subpart D - Specific Administrative Decisions Regarding Interstate
Shipments, Section 1240.60(d).
Commercially processed
3-202.110 Juice Treated.
Pre-packaged juice shall:
(A) Be obtained from a processor with a HACCP system as specified in 21
CFR Part 120 Hazard Analysis and Critical Control (HACCP) Systems; Pf
and
(B) Be obtained pasteurized or otherwise treated to attain a 5-log
reduction of the most resistant microorganism of public health
significance as specified in 21 CFR Part 120.24 Process Controls. P
3-203 Original Containers and Records
3-203.11 Molluscan Shellfish, Original Container.
(A) Except as specified in ¶¶ (C) - (E) of this section, MOLLUSCAN SHELLFISH may
not be removed from the container in which they are received other than
immediately before sale or preparation for service.
(B) MOLLUSCAN SHELLFISH from one tagged or labeled container shall not be
COMMINGLED with MOLLUSCAN SHELLFISH from another container with different
CERTIFICATION NUMBERS, different harvest dates, or different growing areas
identified on the tag or label before being ordered by the CONSUMER. Pf
(C) For display purposes, SHELLSTOCK or IN-SHELL PRODUCT may be removed from
the container in which they are received, displayed on drained ice, or held in a
display container, and a quantity specified by a CONSUMER may be removed
from the display or display container and provided to the CONSUMER if:
(1) The source of the SHELLSTOCK OR IN-SHELL PRODUCT on display is
identified as specified under § 3-202.18 and recorded as specified
under § 3-203.12; and
(2) The SHELLSTOCK OR IN-SHELL PRODUCT is protected from contamination.
53

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 3. Food
(D) SHUCKED SHELLFISH may be removed from the container in which they were
received and held in a display container from which individual servings are
dispensed upon a CONSUMER'S request if:
(1) The labeling information for the shellfish on display as specified under
§ 3-202.18 is retained and correlated to the date when, or dates during
which, the shellfish are sold or served; and
(2) The shellfish are protected from contamination.
(E) SHUCKED SHELLFISH may be removed from the container in which they were
received and repacked in CONSUMER self-service containers where allowed by
LAW if:
(1) The labeling information for the shellfish is on each CONSUMER self-
service container as specified under § 3-202.18 and ¶¶ 3-602.11(A)
and (B)(1) - (5);
(2) The labeling information as specified under § 3-202.18 is retained and
correlated with the date when, or dates during which, the shellfish are
sold or served;
(3) The labeling information and dates specified under Subparagraph
(E)(2) of this section are maintained for 90 days; and
(4) The shellfish are protected from contamination.
3-203.12 Molluscan Shellfish, Maintaining Identification.
(A) Except as specified under Subparagraph (C) (2) of this section, MOLLUSCAN
SHELLFISH tags or labels shall remain attached to the container in which the
SHELLSTOCK are received until the container is empty; Pf and
(B) The date when the last MOLLUSCAN SHELLFISH from the container is sold or
served shall be recorded on the tag, label, or invoice; Pf and
(C) The identity of the source of MOLLUSCAN SHELLFISH that are sold or served
shall be maintained by retaining product tags, labels, or invoices for 90
calendar days from the date that is recorded on the tag, label, or invoice as
specified under ¶ B of this section, by: Pf
(1) Using an APPROVED record keeping system that keeps the tags, labels,
or invoice in chronological order correlated to the date that is recorded
on the tag, label, or invoice as specified under ¶ B of this section; Pf
and
(2) If SHELLSTOCK, SHUCKED SHELLFISH or IN-SHELL PRODUCT are removed
from its tagged or labeled container the source identification will be
preserved by using a record keeping system as specified under
Subparagraph (C)(1) of this section. Pf
54

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 3. Food
3-204 Food Donation
3-204.10 Food Donation.
FOOD stored, prepared, PACKAGED, displayed, and labeled in accordance to LAW
and this Code may be offered for donation.
3-3 Protection from Contamination After Receiving
Subparts:
3-301 Preventing Contamination by Employees
3-302 Preventing Food and Ingredient Contamination
3-303 Preventing Contamination from Ice Used as a Coolant
3-304 Preventing Contamination from Equipment, Utensils, and Linens
3-305 Preventing Contamination from the Premises
3-306 Preventing Contamination by Consumers
3-307 Preventing Contamination from Other Sources
3-301 Preventing Contamination by Employees
3-301.11 Preventing Contamination from Hands.
(A) FOOD EMPLOYEES shall wash their hands as specified under § 2-301.12.
(B) Except when washing fruits and vegetables as specified under § 3-302.15 or
as specified in ¶¶ (D) and (E) of this section, FOOD EMPLOYEES may not
contact exposed, READY-TO-EAT FOOD with their bare hands and shall use
suitable UTENSILS such as deli tissue, spatulas, tongs, single-use gloves, or
dispensing EQUIPMENT. P
(C) FOOD EMPLOYEES shall minimize bare hand and arm contact with exposed
FOOD that is not in a READY-TO-EAT form. Pf
(D) Paragraph (B) of this section does not apply to a FOOD EMPLOYEE that contacts
exposed, READY-TO-EAT FOOD with bare hands at the time the READY-TO-EAT
FOOD is being added as an ingredient to a FOOD that:
(1) Contains a raw animal FOOD and is to be cooked in the FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT to heat all parts of the FOOD to the minimum
temperatures specified in ¶¶ 3-401.11(A)-(B) or § 3-401.12; or
(2) Does not contain a raw animal FOOD but is to be cooked in the food
establishment to heat all parts of the FOOD to a temperature of at least
63°C (145°F).
55

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 3. Food
(E) FOOD EMPLOYEES not serving a HIGHLY SUSCEPTIBLE POPULATION may contact
exposed, READY-TO-EAT FOOD with their bare hands if:
(1) The PERMIT HOLDER obtains prior APPROVAL from the REGULATORY
AUTHORITY;
(2) Written procedures are maintained in the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT and
made available to the REGULATORY AUTHORITY upon request that
include:
(a) For each bare hand contact procedure, a listing of the specific
READY-TO-EAT FOODS that are touched by bare hands,
(b) Diagrams and other information showing that handwashing
facilities, installed, located, equipped, and maintained as
specified under §§ 5-203.11, 5-204.11, 5-205.11, 6-301.11, 6-
301.12, and 6-301.14, are in an easily accessible location and
near the workstation where the bare hand contact procedure is
conducted;
(3) A written EMPLOYEE health policy that details how the FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT complies with §§ 2-201.11, 2-201.12, and 2-201.13
including:
(a) Documentation that FOOD EMPLOYEES and CONDITIONAL
EMPLOYEES acknowledge that they are informed to report
information about their health and activities as they relate to
gastrointestinal symptoms and diseases that are transmittable
through FOOD as specified under ¶ 2-201.11(A),
(b) Documentation that FOOD EMPLOYEES and CONDITIONAL
EMPLOYEES acknowledge their responsibilities as specified under
¶ 2-201.11(E) and (F), and
(c) Documentation that the PERSON IN CHARGE acknowledges the
responsibilities as specified under ¶¶ 2-201.11(B), (C) and (D),
and §§ 2-201.12 and 2-201.13;
(4) Documentation that FOOD EMPLOYEES acknowledge that they have
received training in:
(a) The risks of contacting the specific READY-TO-EAT FOODS with
bare hands,
(b) Proper handwashing as specified under § 2-301.12,
(c) When to wash their hands as specified under § 2-301.14,
(d) Where to wash their hands as specified under § 2-301.15,
(e) Proper fingernail maintenance as specified under § 2-302.11,
56

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 3. Food
(f) Prohibition of jewelry as specified under § 2-303.11, and
(g) Good hygienic practices as specified under §§ 2-401.11 and 2-
401.12;
(5) Documentation that hands are washed before FOOD preparation and as
necessary to prevent cross contamination by FOOD EMPLOYEES as
specified under §§ 2-301.11, 2-301.12, 2-301.14, and 2-301.15 during
all hours of operation when the specific READY-TO-EAT FOODS are
prepared;
(6) Documentation that FOOD EMPLOYEES contacting READY-TO-EAT FOOD
with bare hands use two or more of the following control measures to
provide additional safeguards to hazards associated with bare hand
contact:
(a) Double handwashing,
(b) Nail brushes,
(c) A hand antiseptic after handwashing as specified under §
2-301.16,
(d) Incentive programs such as paid sick leave that assist or
encourage FOOD EMPLOYEES not to work when they are ill, or
(e) Other control measures approved by the REGULATORY
AUTHORITY; and
(7) Documentation that corrective action is taken when Subparagraphs
(E)(1) - (6) of this section are not followed.
3-301.12 Preventing Contamination When Tasting.
A FOOD EMPLOYEE may not use a UTENSIL more than once to taste FOOD that is to
be sold or served. P
3-302 Preventing Food and Ingredient Contamination
3-302.11 Packaged and Unpackaged Food - Separation, Packaging, and
Segregation.
(A) FOOD shall be protected from cross contamination by:
(1) Except as specified in (1)(d) below or when combined as ingredients,
separating raw animal FOODS during storage, preparation, holding, and
display from:
(a) Raw READY-TO-EAT FOOD including other raw animal FOOD such
as FISH for sushi or MOLLUSCAN SHELLFISH, or other raw READY-
TO-EAT FOOD such as fruits and vegetables, P
(b) Cooked READY-TO-EAT FOOD, P and
57

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 3. Food
(c) Fruits and vegetables before they are washed; P
(d) Frozen, commercially processed and packaged raw animal
FOOD may be stored or displayed with or above frozen,
commercially processed and PACKAGED, ready-to-eat food.
(2) Except when combined as ingredients, separating types of raw animal
FOODS from each other such as beef, FISH, lamb, pork, and POULTRY
during storage, preparation, holding, and display by:
(a) Using separate EQUIPMENT for each type, P or
(b) Arranging each type of FOOD in EQUIPMENT so that cross
contamination of one type with another is prevented, P and
(c) Preparing each type of FOOD at different times or in separate
areas; P
(3) Cleaning EQUIPMENT and UTENSILS as specified under ¶ 4-602.11(A)
and SANITIZING as specified under § 4-703.11;
(4) Except as specified under Subparagraph 3-501.15(B)(2) and in ¶ (B) of
this section, storing the FOOD in PACKAGES, covered containers, or
wrappings;
(5) Cleaning HERMETICALLY SEALED CONTAINERS of FOOD of visible soil
before opening;
(6) Protecting FOOD containers that are received packaged together in a
case or overwrap from cuts when the case or overwrap is opened;
(7) Storing damaged, spoiled, or recalled FOOD being held in the FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT as specified under § 6-404.11; and
(8) Separating fruits and vegetables, before they are washed as specified
under § 3-302.15 from READY-TO-EAT FOOD.
(B) Subparagraph (A)(4) of this section does not apply to:
(1) Whole, uncut, raw fruits and vegetables and nuts in the shell, that
require peeling or hulling before consumption;
(2) Primal cuts, quarters, or sides of raw MEAT or slab bacon that are hung
on clean, sanitized hooks or placed on clean, sanitized racks;
(3) Whole, uncut, processed MEATS such as country hams, and smoked or
cured sausages that are placed on clean, sanitized racks;
(4) Food being cooled as specified under Subparagraph 3-501.15(B)(2); or
(5) SHELLSTOCK.
3-302.12 Food Storage Containers, Identified with Common Name of Food.
Except for containers holding FOOD that can be readily and unmistakably
recognized such as dry pasta, working containers holding FOOD or FOOD
58

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 3. Food
ingredients that are removed from their original packages for use in the FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT, such as cooking oils, flour, herbs, potato flakes, salt, spices, and
sugar shall be identified with the common name of the FOOD.
3-302.13 Pasteurized Eggs, Substitute for Raw Eggs for Certain Recipes.
Pasteurized EGGS or EGG PRODUCTS shall be substituted for raw EGGS in the
preparation of FOODS such as Caesar salad, hollandaise or Béarnaise sauce,
mayonnaise, meringue, eggnog, ice cream, and EGG-fortified BEVERAGES that are
not: P
(A) Cooked as specified under Subparagraphs 3-401.11(A)(1) or (2); P or
(B) Included in ¶ 3-401.11(D). P
3-302.14 Protection from Unapproved Additives.
(A) FOOD shall be protected from contamination that may result from the addition
of, as specified in § 3-202.12:
(1) Unsafe or unAPPROVED FOOD or COLOR ADDITIVES; P and
(2) Unsafe or unAPPROVED levels of approved FOOD and COLOR ADDITIVES. P
(B) A FOOD EMPLOYEE may not:
(1) Apply sulfiting agents to fresh fruits and vegetables intended for raw
consumption or to a FOOD considered to be a good source of vitamin
B ; P or
1
(2) Except for grapes, serve or sell FOOD specified under Subparagraph
(B)(1) of this section that is treated with sulfiting agents before receipt
by the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. P
3-302.15 Washing Fruits and Vegetables.
(A) Except as specified in ¶ (B) of this section and except for whole, raw fruits
and vegetables that are intended for washing by the CONSUMER before
consumption, raw fruits and vegetables shall be thoroughly washed in water
to remove soil and other contaminants before being cut, combined with other
ingredients, cooked, served, or offered for human consumption in READY-TO-
EAT form.
(B) Fruits and vegetables may be washed by using chemicals as specified under
§ 7-204.12 and a test kit or other device that accurately measures the active
ingredient concentration of the fruit and vegetable wash solution may be
provided.
(C) Devices used for on-site generation of chemicals meeting the requirements
specified in 21 CFR 173.315, Chemicals used in the washing or to assist in the
peeling of fruits and vegetables, for the washing of raw, whole fruits and
vegetables shall be used in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions. Pf
59

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 3. Food
3-303 Preventing Contamination from Ice Used as a Coolant
3-303.11 Ice Used as Exterior Coolant, Prohibited as Ingredient.
After use as a medium for cooling the exterior surfaces of FOOD such as melons
or FISH, PACKAGED FOODS such as canned BEVERAGES, or cooling coils and tubes
of EQUIPMENT, ice may not be used as FOOD. P
3-303.12 Storage or Display of Food in Contact with Water or Ice.
(A) PACKAGED FOOD may not be stored in direct contact with ice or water if the
FOOD is subject to the entry of water because of the nature of its packaging,
wrapping, or container or its positioning in the ice or water
(B) Except as specified in ¶¶ (C) and (D) of this section, unPACKAGED FOOD may
not be stored in direct contact with undrained ice.
(C) Whole, raw fruits or vegetables; cut, raw vegetables such as celery or carrot
sticks or cut potatoes; and tofu may be immersed in ice or water.
(D) Raw poultry and raw FISH that are received immersed in ice in shipping
containers may remain in that condition while in storage awaiting preparation,
display, service, or sale. .
3-304 Preventing Contamination from Equipment, Utensils, and Linens
3-304.11 Food Contact with Equipment and Utensils.
FOOD shall only contact surfaces of:
(A) EQUIPMENT and UTENSILS that are cleaned as specified under Part 4-6
of this Code and SANITIZED as specified under Part 4-7 of this Code; P
(B) SINGLE-SERVICE and SINGLE-USE ARTICLES; P or
(C) LINENS, such as cloth napkins, as specified under § 3-304.13 that are
laundered as specified under Part 4-8 of this Code. P
3-304.12 In-Use Utensils, Between-Use Storage.
During pauses in FOOD preparation or dispensing, FOOD preparation and
dispensing UTENSILS shall be stored:
(A) Except as specified under ¶ (B) of this section, in the FOOD with their
handles above the top of the FOOD and the container;
(B) In FOOD that is not TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD with
their handles above the top of the FOOD within containers or EQUIPMENT
that can be closed, such as bins of sugar, flour, or cinnamon;
(C) On a clean portion of the FOOD preparation table or cooking EQUIPMENT
only if the in-use UTENSIL and the FOOD-CONTACT surface of the FOOD
60

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 3. Food
preparation table or cooking equipment are cleaned and SANITIZED at a
frequency specified under §§ 4-602.11 and 4-702.11;
(D) In running water of sufficient velocity to flush particulates to the drain,
if used with moist FOOD such as ice cream or mashed potatoes;
(E) In a clean, protected location if the UTENSILS, such as ice scoops, are
used only with a FOOD that is not TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR
SAFETY FOOD; or
(F) In a container of water if the water is maintained at a temperature of at
least 57°C (135°F) and the container is cleaned at a frequency
specified under Subparagraph 4-602.11(D)(7).
3-304.13 Linens and Napkins, Use Limitation.
LINENS, such as cloth napkins, may not be used in contact with FOOD unless they
are used to line a container for the service of FOODS and the LINENS and napkins
are replaced each time the container is refilled for a new CONSUMER.
3-304.14 Wiping Cloths, Use Limitation.
(A) Cloths in-use for wiping FOOD spills from TABLEWARE and carry-out containers
that occur as FOOD is being served shall be:
(1) Maintained dry; and
(2) Used for no other purpose.
(B) Cloths in-use for wiping counters and other EQUIPMENT surfaces shall be:
(1) Held between uses in a chemical sanitizer solution at a concentration
specified under § 4-501.114; and
(2) Laundered daily as specified under ¶ 4-802.11(D).
(C) Cloths in-use for wiping surfaces in contact with raw animal FOODS shall be
kept separate from cloths used for other purposes.
(D) Dry wiping cloths and the chemical sanitizing solutions specified in
Subparagraph (B)(1) of this section in which wet wiping cloths are held
between uses shall be free of FOOD debris and visible soil.
(E) Containers of chemical sanitizing solutions specified in Subparagraph (B)(1)
of this section in which wet wiping cloths are held between uses shall be
stored off the floor and used in a manner that prevents contamination of
FOOD, EQUIPMENT, UTENSILS, LINENS, SINGLE-SERVICE, or SINGLE-USE ARTICLES.
(F) SINGLE-USE disposable sanitizer wipes shall be used in accordance with EPA-
APPROVED manufacturer’s label use instructions.
3-304.15 Gloves, Use Limitation.
(A) If used, SINGLE-USE gloves shall be used for only one task such as working
with READY-TO-EAT FOOD or with raw animal FOOD, used for no other purpose,
61

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 3. Food
and discarded when damaged or soiled, or when interruptions occur in the
operation . P
(B) Except as specified in ¶ (C) of this section, slash-resistant gloves that are
used to protect the hands during operations requiring cutting shall be used in
direct contact only with FOOD that is subsequently cooked as specified under
Part 3-4 such as frozen FOOD or a PRIMAL CUT of MEAT.
(C) Slash-resistant gloves may be used with READY-TO-EAT FOOD that will not be
subsequently cooked if the slash-resistant gloves have a SMOOTH, durable,
and nonabsorbent outer surface; or if the slash-resistant gloves are covered
with a SMOOTH, durable, nonabsorbent glove, or a SINGLE-USE glove.
(D) Cloth gloves may not be used in direct contact with FOOD unless the FOOD is
subsequently cooked as required under Part 3-4 such as frozen FOOD or a
PRIMAL CUT OF MEAT.
3-304.16 Using Clean Tableware for Second Portions and Refills.
(A) Except for refilling a CONSUMER’S drinking cup or container without contact
between the pouring UTENSIL and the lip-contact area of the drinking cup or
container, FOOD EMPLOYEES may not use TABLEWARE, including SINGLE-SERVICE
ARTICLES, soiled by the CONSUMER, to provide second portions or refills.
(B) Except as specified in ¶ (C) of this section, self-service CONSUMERS may not
be allowed to use soiled TABLEWARE, including SINGLE-SERVICE ARTICLES, to
obtain additional FOOD from the display and serving EQUIPMENT.
(C) Drinking cups and containers may be reused by self-service CONSUMERS if
refilling is a contamination-free process as specified under ¶¶ 4-204.13(A),
(B), and (D).
3-304.17 Refilling Returnables.
(A) Except as specified in ¶¶ (B) - (E) of this section, empty containers returned
to a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT for cleaning and refilling with FOOD shall be cleaned
and refilled in a regulated FOOD PROCESSING PLANT. P
(B) A take-home FOOD container returned to a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT may be
refilled at a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT with FOOD if the FOOD container is:
(1) Designed and constructed for reuse and in accordance with the
requirements specified under Part 4-1 and 4-2; P
(2) One that was initially provided by the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT to the
CONSUMER, either empty or filled with FOOD by the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT,
for the purpose of being returned for reuse;
(3) Returned to the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT by the CONSUMER after use;
62

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 3. Food
(4) Subject to the following steps before being refilled with FOOD:
(a) Cleaned as specified under Part 4-6 of this Code,
(b) SANITIZED as specified under Part 4-7 of this Code; P and
(c) Visually inspected by a FOOD EMPLOYEE to verify that the
container, as returned, meets the requirements specified under
Part 4-1 and 4-2. P
(C) A take-home FOOD container returned to a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT may be
refilled at a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT with BEVERAGE if:
(1) The BEVERAGE is not a TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD;
(2) The design of the container and of the rinsing EQUIPMENT and the
nature of the BEVERAGE, when considered together, allow effective
cleaning at home or in the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT;
(3) Facilities for rinsing before refilling returned containers with fresh, hot
water that is under pressure and not recirculated are provided as part
of the dispensing system;
(4) The consumer-owned containerreturned to the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT for
refilling is refilled for sale or service only to the same consumer; and
(5) The container is refilled by:
(a) An EMPLOYEE of the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT, or
(b) The owner of the container if the BEVERAGE system includes a
contamination-free transfer process as specified under ¶¶ 4-
204.13(A), (B), and (D) that cannot be bypassed by the
container owner.
(D) CONSUMER-owned, personal take-out BEVERAGE containers, such as thermally
insulated bottles, non-spill coffee cups, and promotional BEVERAGE glasses,
may be refilled by EMPLOYEES or the CONSUMER if refilling is a contamination-
free process as specified under ¶¶ 4-204.13(A), (B), and (D).
(E) CONSUMER-owned containers that are not FOOD-specific may be filled at a
water VENDING MACHINE or system.
3-305 Preventing Contamination from the Premises
3-305.11 Food Storage.
(A) Except as specified in ¶¶ (B) and (C) of this section, FOOD shall be protected
from contamination by storing the FOOD:
(1) In a clean, dry location;
(2) Where it is not exposed to splash, dust, or other contamination; and
(3) At least 15 cm (6 inches) above the floor.
63

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 3. Food
(B) FOOD in packages and working containers may be stored less than 15 cm (6
inches) above the floor on case lot handling EQUIPMENT as specified under §
4-204.122.
(C) Pressurized BEVERAGE containers, cased food in waterproof containers such
as bottles or cans, and milk containers in plastic crates may be stored on a
floor that is clean and not exposed to floor moisture.
3-305.12 Food Storage, Prohibited Areas.
FOOD may not be stored:
(A) In locker rooms;
(B) In toilet rooms; Pf
(C) In dressing rooms;
(D) In garbage rooms;
(E) In mechanical rooms;
(F) Under sewer lines that are not shielded to intercept potential drips;
(G) Under leaking water lines, including leaking automatic fire sprinkler
heads, or under lines on which water has condensed;
(H) Under open stairwells; or
(I) Under other sources of contamination.
3-305.13 Vended Time/Temperature Control for Safety Food, Original
Container.
TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD dispensed through a VENDING
MACHINE shall be in the PACKAGE in which it was placed at the FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT or FOOD PROCESSING PLANT at which it was prepared.
3-305.14 Food Preparation.
During preparation, unPACKAGED FOOD shall be protected from environmental
sources of contamination.
3-306 Preventing Contamination by Consumers
3-306.11 Food Display.
Except for nuts in the shell and whole, raw fruits and vegetables that are
intended for hulling, peeling, or washing by the CONSUMER before consumption,
FOOD on display shall be protected from contamination by the use of PACKAGING;
counter, service line, or salad bar FOOD guards; display cases; or other effective
means. P
64

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 3. Food
3-306.12 Condiments, Protection.
(A) Condiments shall be protected from contamination by being kept in
dispensers that are designed to provide protection, protected FOOD displays
provided with the proper UTENSILS, original containers designed for
dispensing, or individual PACKAGES or portions.
(B) Condiments at a VENDING MACHINE LOCATION, shall be in individual PACKAGES
or provided in dispensers that are filled at an APPROVED location, such as the
FOOD ESTABLISHMENT that provides FOOD to the VENDING MACHINE LOCATION, a
FOOD PROCESSING PLANT that is regulated by the agency that has jurisdiction
over the operation, or a properly equipped facility that is located on the site of
the VENDING MACHINE LOCATION.
3-306.13 Consumer Self-Service Operations.
(A) Raw, unPACKAGED animal FOOD, such as beef, lamb, pork, POULTRY, and FISH
may not be offered for CONSUMER self-service. P This paragraph does not
apply to:
(1) CONSUMER self-service of READY-TO-EAT FOODS at buffets or salad bars
that serve FOODS such as sushi or raw shellfish;
(2) Ready-to-cook individual portions for immediate cooking and
consumption on the PREMISES such as CONSUMER-cooked MEATS or
CONSUMER-selected ingredients for Mongolian barbecue; or
(3) Raw, frozen, shell-on shrimp, or lobster.
(B) CONSUMER self-service operations for READY-TO-EAT FOODS shall be provided
with suitable UTENSILS or effective dispensing methods that protect the FOOD from
contamination. Pf
(C) CONSUMER self-service operations such as buffets and salad bar shall be
monitored by FOOD EMPLOYEES trained in safe operating procedures. Pf
3-306.14 Returned Food and Re-Service of Food.
(A) Except as specified in ¶ (B) of this section, after being served or sold and in
the possession of a CONSUMER, FOOD that is unused or returned by the
CONSUMER may not be offered as FOOD for human consumption. P
(B) Except as specified under ¶ 3-801.11(G), a container of FOOD that is not
TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD may be RE-SERVED from one
CONSUMER to another if:
(1) The FOOD is dispensed so that it is protected from contamination and
the container is closed between uses, such as a narrow-neck bottle
containing catsup, steak sauce, or wine; or
(2) The FOOD, such as crackers, salt, or pepper, is in an unopened original
package and is maintained in sound condition.
65

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 3. Food
3-307 Preventing Contamination from Other Sources
3-307.11 Miscellaneous Sources of Contamination.
FOOD shall be protected from contamination that may result from a factor or
source not specified under Subparts 3-301 - 3-306.
3-4 Destruction of Organisms of Public Health Concern
Subparts:
3-401 Cooking
3-402 Freezing
3-403 Reheating
3-404 Other Methods
3-401 Cooking
3-401.11 Raw Animal Foods.
(A) Except as specified under ¶ (B) and in ¶¶ (C) and (D) of this section, raw
animal FOODS such as EGGS, FISH, MEAT, POULTRY, and FOODS containing
these raw animal FOODS, shall be cooked to heat all parts of the FOOD to a
temperature and for a time that complies with one of the following methods
based on the FOOD that is being cooked:
(1) 63°C (145°F) or above for 15 seconds for: P
(a) Raw EGGS that are broken and prepared in response to a
CONSUMER'S order and for immediate service, P and
(b) Except as specified under Subparagraphs (A)(2) and (A)(3) and
¶ (B), and in ¶ (C) of this section, FISH and INTACT MEAT including
GAME ANIMALS commercially raised for FOOD as specified under
Subparagraph 3-201.17(A)(1) and GAME ANIMALS under a
voluntary inspection program as specified under Subparagraph
3-201.17(A)(2); P
(2) 68oC (155oF) for 17 seconds or the temperature specified in the
following chart that corresponds to the holding time for RATITES, and
nonINTACT MEATS; the following if they are COMMINUTED: FISH and GAME
ANIMALS commercially raised for FOOD as specified under
Subparagraph 3-201.17(A)(1), and GAME ANIMALS under a voluntary
inspection program as specified under Subparagraph 3-201.17(A)(2);
and raw EGGS that are not prepared as specified under Subparagraph
(A)(1)(a) of this section: P
66

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 3. Food
Minimum Temperature °C (°F) Minimum Time
63 (145) 3 minutes
66 (150) 1 minute
70 (158) < 1 second (instantaneous)
or
(3) 74oC (165oF) or above for < 1 second (instantaneous) for POULTRY,
BALUTS, wild GAME ANIMALS as specified under Subparagraphs
3-201.17(A)(3) and (4), stuffed FISH, stuffed MEAT, stuffed pasta, stuffed
POULTRY, stuffed RATITES, or stuffing containing FISH, MEAT, POULTRY, or
RATITES. P
(B) Whole MEAT roasts including beef, corned beeflamb, pork, and cured pork
roasts such as ham shall be cooked
(1) As specified in the following chart, to heat all parts of the FOOD to a
temperature and for the holding time that corresponds to that
temperature: P
Temperature °C (°F) Time1 in Minutes
54.4 (130) 112
55.0 (131) 89
56.1 (133) 56
57.2 (135) 36
57.8 (136) 28
58.9 (138) 18
60.0 (140) 12
61.1 (142) 8
62.2 (144) 5
62.8 (145) 4
1 Holding time may include post-oven heat rise.
67

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 3. Food
Temperature °C (°F) Time1 in Seconds
63.9 (147) 134
65.0 (149) 85
66.1 (151) 54
67.2 (153) 34
68.3 (155) 22
69.4 (157) 14
70.0 (158) 0
1 Holding time may include post-oven heat rise.
and
(2) If cooked in an oven, use an oven that is preheated to the temperature
specified for the roast's weight in the following chart and that is held at
that temperature: Pf
Oven Temperature Based on Roast Weight
Oven Type Less than 4.5 kg (10 lbs.) 4.5 kg (10 lbs.) or More
Still Dry 177°C (350°F) or more 121°C (250°F) or more
Convection 163°C (325°F) or more 121°C (250°F) or more
High Humidity 1 121°C (250°F) or less 121°C (250°F) or less
1 Relative humidity greater than 90% for at least 1 hour as measured in the
cooking chamber or exit of the oven; or in a moisture-impermeable bag
that provides 100% humidity.
(C) A raw or undercooked WHOLE-MUSCLE, INTACT BEEF steak may be served or
offered for sale in a READY-TO-EAT form if:
(1) The FOOD ESTABLISHMENT serves a population that is not a HIGHLY
SUSCEPTIBLE POPULATION,
(2) The steak is prepared so that it remains intact, and
(3) The steak is cooked on both the top and bottom to a surface
temperature of 63°C (145°F) or above and a cooked color change is
achieved on all external surfaces.
(D) A raw animal FOOD such as raw EGG, raw FISH, raw-marinated FISH, raw
MOLLUSCAN SHELLFISH, or steak tartare; or a partially cooked FOOD such as
lightly cooked FISH, soft cooked EGGS, or rare MEAT other than WHOLE-MUSCLE,
68

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 3. Food
INTACT BEEF steaks as specified in ¶ (C) of this section, may be served or
offered for sale upon CONSUMER request or selection in a READY-TO-EAT form
if:
(1) As specified under ¶¶ 3-801.11(C)(1) and (2), the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT
serves a population that is not a HIGHLY SUSCEPTIBLE POPULATION;
(2) The FOOD, if served or offered for service by CONSUMER selection from
a children’s menu, does not contain COMMINUTED MEAT; Pf and
(3) The CONSUMER is informed as specified under § 3-603.11 that to
ensure its safety, the FOOD should be cooked as specified under ¶ (A)
or (B) of this section; or
(4) The REGULATORY AUTHORITY grants a VARIANCE from ¶ (A) or (B) of this
section as specified in § 8-103.10 based on a HACCP PLAN that:
(a) Is submitted by the PERMIT HOLDER and APPROVED as specified
under § 8-103.11,
(b) Documents scientific data or other information showing that a
lesser time and temperature regimen results in a safe FOOD, and
(c) Verifies that EQUIPMENT and procedures for FOOD preparation
and training of FOOD EMPLOYEES at the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT
meet the conditions of the VARIANCE.
3-401.12 Microwave Cooking.
Raw animal FOODS cooked in a microwave oven shall be:
(A) Rotated or stirred throughout or midway during cooking to compensate
for uneven distribution of heat;
(B) Covered to retain surface moisture;
(C) Heated to a temperature of at least 74oC (165oF) in all parts of the
FOOD; P and
(D) Allowed to stand covered for 2 minutes after cooking to obtain
temperature equilibrium.
3-401.13 Plant Food Cooking for Hot Holding.
Plant FOODS that are cooked for hot holding shall be cooked to a temperature of
57oC (135oF). Pf
3-401.14 Non-Continuous Cooking of Raw Animal Foods.
Raw animal FOODS that are cooked using a NON-CONTINUOUS COOKING process
shall be:
(A) Subject to an initial heating process that is no longer than sixty
minutes in duration; P
69

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 3. Food
(B) Immediately after initial heating, cooled according to the time and
temperature parameters specified for cooked TIME/TEMPERATURE
CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD under ¶ 3-501.14(A); P
(C) After cooling, held frozen or cold, as specified for TIME/TEMPERATURE
CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD under ¶ 3-501.16(A)(2); P
(D) Prior to sale or service, cooked using a process that heats all parts of
the FOOD to a temperature and for a time as specified under
¶¶ 3-401.11 (A)-(C); P
(E) Cooled according to the time and temperature parameters specified for
cooked TIME /TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD under
¶ 3-501.14(A) if not either hot held as specified under ¶3-501.16(A),
served immediately, or held using time as a public health control, as
specified under §3-501.19 after complete cooking; P and
(F) Prepared and stored according to written procedures that:
(1) Have obtained prior APPROVAL from the REGULATORY AUTHORITY; Pf
(2) Are maintained in the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT and are available to
the REGULATORY AUTHORITY upon request; Pf
(3) Describe how the requirements specified under ¶ (A)-(E) of this
Section are to be monitored and documented by the PERMIT
HOLDER and the corrective actions to be taken if the
requirements are not met; Pf
(4) Describe how the FOODS, after initial heating, but prior to
complete cooking, are to be marked or otherwise identified as
FOODS that must be cooked as specified under ¶ (D) of this
section prior to being offered for sale or service; Pf and
(5) Describe how the FOODS, after initial heating but prior to cooking
as specified under ¶(D) of this section, are to be separated from
READY-TO-EAT FOODS as specified under ¶3-302.11 (A). Pf
3-401.15 Manufacturer Cooking Instructions.
(A) Commercially PACKAGED FOOD that bears a manufacturer’s cooking
instructions shall be cooked according to those instructions before use in
READY-TO-EAT FOODS or offered in unPACKAGED form for human consumption,
unless the manufacturer’s instructions specify that the FOOD may be
consumed without cooking. P
(B) FOOD for which the manufacturer has provided information that it has not
been processed to control pathogens, when used in READY-TO-EAT FOODS or
offered for human consumption, shall be cooked according to a time and
temperature appropriate for the FOOD. P
70

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 3. Food
3-402 Freezing
3-402.11 Parasite Destruction.
(A) Except as specified in ¶ (B) of this section, before service or sale in READY-TO-
EAT form, raw, raw-marinated, partially cooked, or marinated-partially cooked
FISH shall be:
(1) Frozen and stored at a temperature of -20°C (-4°F) or below for a
minimum of 168 hours (7 days) in a freezer; P
(2) Frozen at -35°C (-31°F) or below until solid and stored at -35°C (-31°F)
or below for a minimum of 15 hours; P or
(3) Frozen at -35°C (-31°F) or below until solid and stored at -20°C (-4°F)
or below for a minimum of 24 hours. P
(B) Paragraph (A) of this section does not apply to:
(1) Molluscan shellfish;
(2) A scallop product consisting only of the shucked adductor muscle;
(3) Tuna of the species Thunnus alalunga, Thunnus albacores (Yellowfin
tuna), Thunnus atlanticus, Thunnus maccoyii (Bluefin tuna, Southern),
Thunnus obesus (Bigeye tuna), or Thunnus thynnus (Bluefin tuna,
Northern); or
(4) Aquacultured fish, such as salmon, that:
(a) If raised in open water, are raised in net-pens, or
(b) Are raised in land-based operations such as ponds or tanks,
and
(c) Are fed formulated feed, such as pellets, that contains no live
parasites infective to the aquacultured fish.
(5) FISH eggs that have been removed from the skein and rinsed.
3-402.12 Records, Creation and Retention.
(A) Except as specified in ¶ 3-402.11(B) and ¶ (B) of this section, if raw, raw-
marinated, partially cooked, or marinated-partially cooked FISH are served or
sold in READY-TO-EAT form, the PERSON IN CHARGE shall record the freezing
temperature and time to which the FISH are subjected and shall retain the
records of the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT for 90 calendar days beyond the time of
service or sale of the FISH. Pf
(B) If the FISH are frozen by a supplier, a written agreement or statement from the
supplier stipulating that the FISH supplied are frozen to a temperature and for
a time specified under § 3-402.11 may substitute for the records specified
under ¶ (A) of this section.
71

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 3. Food
(C) If raw, raw-marinated, partially cooked, or marinated-partially cooked FISH are
served or sold in READY-TO-EAT form, and the FISH are raised and fed as
specified in Subparagraph 3-402.11(B)(4), a written agreement or statement
from the supplier or aquaculturist stipulating that the FISH were raised and fed
as specified in Subparagraph 3-402.11(B)(4) shall be obtained by the PERSON
IN CHARGE and retained in the records of the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT for 90
calendar days beyond the time of service or sale of the FISH. Pf
3-403 Reheating
3-403.10 Preparation for Immediate Service.
Cooked and refrigerated FOOD that is prepared for immediate service in response
to an individual CONSUMER order, such as a roast beef sandwich au jus, may be
served at any temperature.
3-403.11 Reheating for Hot Holding.
(A) Except as specified under ¶¶ (B) and (C) and in ¶ (E) of this section,
TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD that is cooked, cooled, and
reheated for hot holding shall be reheated so that all parts of the FOOD reach
a temperature of at least 74°C (165°F) for 15 seconds. P
(B) Except as specified under ¶ (C) of this section, TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL
FOR SAFETY FOOD reheated in a microwave oven for hot holding shall be
reheated so that all parts of the FOOD reach a temperature of at least 74°C
(165°F) and the FOOD is rotated or stirred, covered, and allowed to stand
covered for 2 minutes after reheating. P
(C) READY-TO-EAT TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD that has been
commercially processed and PACKAGED in a FOOD PROCESSING PLANT that is
inspected by the REGULATORY AUTHORITY that has jurisdiction over the plant,
shall be heated to a temperature of at least 57°C (135°F) when being
reheated for hot holding. P
(D) Reheating for hot holding as specified under ¶¶ (A) - (C) of this section shall
be done rapidly and the time the FOOD is between 5°C (41°F) and the
temperatures specified under ¶¶ (A) - (C) of this section may not exceed
2 hours. P
(E) Remaining unsliced portions of MEAT roasts that are cooked as specified
under ¶ 3-401.11(B) may be reheated for hot holding using the oven
parameters and minimum time and temperature conditions specified under ¶
3-401.11(B).
72

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 3. Food
3-404 Other Methods
3-404.11 Treating Juice.
JUICE PACKAGED in a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT shall be:
(A) Treated under a HACCP PLAN as specified in §8-201.14 to attain a 5-
log reduction, which is equal to a 99.999% reduction, of the most
resistant microorganism of public health significance; P or
(B) Labeled, if not treated to yield a 5-log reduction of the most resistant
microorganism of public health significance: Pf
(1) As specified under § 3-602.11, Pf and
(2) As specified in 21 CFR 101.17(g) FOOD labeling, warning,
notice, and safe handling statements, JUICES that have not been
specifically processed to prevent, reduce, or eliminate the
presence of pathogens with the following, “WARNING: This
product has not been pasteurized and, therefore, may contain
harmful bacteria that can cause serious illness in children, the
elderly, and persons with weakened immune systems.” Pf
3-5 Limitation of Growth of Organisms of Public Health Concern
Subparts:
3-501 Temperature and Time Control
3-502 Specialized Processing Methods
3-501 Temperature and Time Control.
3-501.11 Frozen Food.
Stored frozen FOODS shall be maintained frozen..
3-501.12 Time/Temperature Control for Safety Food, Slacking.
Frozen TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD that is slacked to moderate
the temperature shall be held:
(A) Under refrigeration that maintains the FOOD temperature at 5°C (41°F)
or less; or
(B) At any temperature if the FOOD remains frozen.
73

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 3. Food
3-501.13 Thawing.
Except as specified in ¶ (D) of this section, TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR
SAFETY FOOD shall be thawed:
(A) Under refrigeration that maintains the FOOD temperature at 5°C (41°F)
or less Pf; or
(B) Completely submerged under running water:
(1) At a water temperature of 21°C (70°F) or below Pf,
(2) With sufficient water velocity to agitate and float off loose
particles in an overflow Pf, and
(3) For a period that does not allow thawed portions of READY-TO-
EAT FOOD to rise above 5°C (41°F) Pf, or
(4) For a period that does not allow thawed portions of a raw animal
FOOD requiring cooking as specified under ¶ 3-401.11(A) or (B)
to be above 5°C (41°F), for more than 4 hours including:
(a) The time the FOOD is exposed to the running water and
the time needed for preparation for cooking Pf, or
(b) The time it takes under refrigeration to lower the FOOD
temperature to 5°C (41°F) Pf;
(C) As part of a cooking process if the FOOD that is frozen is:
(1) Cooked as specified under ¶¶3-401.11(A) or (B), §3-401.12, or
§ 3-401.15 Pf, or
(2) Thawed in a microwave oven and immediately transferred to
conventional cooking EQUIPMENT, with no interruption in the
process Pf; or
(D) Using any procedure if a portion of frozen READY-TO-EAT FOOD is
thawed and prepared for immediate service in response to an
individual CONSUMER's order.
(E) REDUCED OXYGEN PACKAGED FISH that bears a label indicating that it is
to be kept frozen until time of use shall be removed from the reduced
oxygen environment:
(1) Prior to its thawing under refrigeration as specified in ¶(A) of this
section; or
(2) Prior to, or Immediately upon completion of, its thawing using
procedures specified in ¶ (B) of this section.
74

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 3. Food
3-501.14 Cooling.
(A) Cooked TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD shall be cooled:
1. Within 2 hours from 57ºC (135ºF) to 21ºC (70ºF); P and
2. Within a total of 6 hours from 57ºC (135ºF) to 5ºC (41ºF) or less. P
(B) TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD shall be cooled within 4 hours to
5°C (41°F) or less if prepared from ingredients at ambient temperature, such
as reconstituted FOODS and canned tuna. P
(C) Except as specified under ¶ (D) of this section, a TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL
FOR SAFETY FOOD received in compliance with laws allowing a temperature
above 5°C (41°F) during shipment from the supplier as specified in ¶
3-202.11(B), shall be cooled within 4 hours to 5°C (41°F) or less. P
(D) Raw EGGS shall be received as specified under ¶ 3-202.11(C) and
immediately placed in refrigerated equipment that maintains an ambient air
temperature of 7°C (45°F) or less. P
3-501.15 Cooling Methods.
(A) Cooling shall be accomplished in accordance with the time and temperature
criteria specified under § 3-501.14 by using one or more of the following
methods based on the type of FOOD being cooled:
(1) Placing the FOOD in shallow pans; Pf
(2) Separating the FOOD into smaller or thinner portions; Pf
(3) Using rapid cooling EQUIPMENT; Pf
(4) Stirring the food in a container placed in an ice water bath; Pf
(5) Using containers that facilitate heat transfer; Pf
(6) Adding ice as an ingredient; Pf or
(7) Other effective methods. Pf
(B) When placed in cooling or cold holding EQUIPMENT, FOOD containers in which
FOOD is being cooled shall be:
(1) Arranged in the EQUIPMENT to provide maximum heat transfer through
the container walls; and
(2) Loosely covered, or uncovered if protected from overhead
contamination as specified under Subparagraph 3-305.11(A)(2), during
the cooling period to facilitate heat transfer from the surface of the
FOOD.
3-501.16 Time/Temperature Control for Safety Food, Hot and Cold Holding.
(A) Except during preparation, cooking, or cooling, or when time is used as the
public health control as specified under §3-501.19, and except as specified
75

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 3. Food
under ¶ (B) and in ¶ (C) of this section, TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR
SAFETY FOOD shall be maintained:
(1) At 57°C (135°F) or above, except roasts cooked to a temperature and
for a time specified in ¶ 3-401.11(B) or reheated as specified in
¶ 3-403.11(E) may be held at a temperature of 54°C (130°F) or above; P
or
(2) At 5°C (41°F) or less. P
(B) EGGS that have not been treated to destroy all viable Salmonellae shall be
stored in refrigerated EQUIPMENT that maintains an ambient air temperature of
7°C (45°F) or less. P
(C) TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD in a homogenous liquid form
may be maintained outside of the temperature control requirements, as
specified under ¶ (A) of this section, while contained within specially designed
EQUIPMENT that complies with the design and construction requirements as
specified under ¶ 4-204.13(E).
On-premises preparation
Prepare and hold cold
3-501.17 Ready-to-Eat, Time/Temperature Control for Safety Food, Date
Marking.
(A) Except when PACKAGING FOOD using a REDUCED OXYGEN PACKAGING method as
specified under § 3-502.12, and except as specified in ¶¶ (E) and (F) of this
section, refrigerated, READY-TO-EAT, TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY
FOOD prepared and held in a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT for more than 24 hours
shall be clearly marked to indicate the date or day by which the FOOD shall be
consumed on the PREMISES, sold, or discarded when held at a temperature of
5ºC (41ºF) or less for a maximum of 7 days. The day of preparation shall be
counted as Day 1. Pf
Commercially processed food
Open and hold cold
(B) Except as specified in ¶¶ (E) - (G) of this section, refrigerated, READY-TO-EAT
TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD prepared and PACKAGED by a
FOOD PROCESSING PLANT shall be clearly marked, at the time the original
container is opened in a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT and if the FOOD is held for more
than 24 hours, to indicate the date or day by which the FOOD shall be
consumed on the PREMISES, sold, or discarded, based on the temperature and
time combinations specified in ¶ (A) of this section and: Pf
1. The day the original container is opened in the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT
shall be counted as Day 1; Pf and
76

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 3. Food
2. The day or date marked by the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT may not exceed a
manufacturer’s use-by date if the manufacturer determined the use-by
date based on FOOD safety. Pf
(C) A refrigerated, READY-TO-EAT TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD
ingredient or a portion of a refrigerated, READY-TO-EAT, TIME/TEMPERATURE
CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD that is subsequently combined with additional
ingredients or portions of FOOD shall retain the date marking of the earliest-
prepared or first-prepared ingredient. Pf
(D) A date marking system that meets the criteria stated in ¶¶ (A) and (B) of this
section may include:
(1) Using a method approved by the REGULATORY AUTHORITY for
refrigerated, READY-TO-EAT TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY
FOOD that is frequently rewrapped, such as lunchmeat or a roast, or for
which date marking is impractical, such as soft serve mix or milk in a
dispensing machine;
(2) Marking the date or day of preparation, with a procedure to discard the
FOOD on or before the last date or day by which the FOOD must be
consumed on the premises, sold, or discarded as specified under ¶ (A)
of this section;
(3) Marking the date or day the original container is opened in a FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT, with a procedure to discard the FOOD on or before the
last date or day by which the food must be consumed on the premises,
sold, or discarded as specified under ¶ (B) of this section; or
(4) Using calendar dates, days of the week, color-coded marks, or other
effective marking methods, provided that the marking system is
disclosed to the REGULATORY AUTHORITY upon request.
(E) Paragraphs (A) and (B) of this section do not apply to individual meal portions
served or rePACKAGED for sale from a bulk container upon a CONSUMER’S
request.
(F) Paragraphs (A) and (B) of this section do not apply to SHELLSTOCK
(G) Paragraph (B) of this section does not apply to the following FOODS prepared
and PACKAGED by a FOOD PROCESSING PLANT inspected by a REGULATORY
AUTHORITY:
(1) Deli salads, such as ham salad, seafood salad, chicken salad, EGG
salad, pasta salad, potato salad, and macaroni salad, manufactured in
accordance with 21 CFR 117 Current good manufacturing practice in
manufacturing, packing, or holding human FOOD;
(2) Hard cheeses containing not more than 39% moisture as defined in 21
CFR 133 Cheeses and related cheese products, such as cheddar,
gruyere, parmesan and reggiano, and romano;
77

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 3. Food
(3) Semi-soft cheeses containing more than 39% moisture, but not more
than 50% moisture, as defined in 21 CFR 133 Cheeses and related
cheese products, such as blue, edam, gorgonzola, gouda, and
monterey jack;
(4) Cultured dairy products as defined in 21 CFR 131 Milk and cream,
such as yogurt, sour cream, and buttermilk;
(5) Preserved FISH products, such as pickled herring and dried or salted
cod, and other acidified FISH products defined in 21 CFR 114 Acidified
foods;
(6) Shelf stable, dry fermented sausages, such as pepperoni and Genoa;
and
(7) Shelf stable salt-cured products such as prosciutto and Parma (ham).
3-501.18 Ready-to-Eat, Time/Temperature Control for Safety Food,
Disposition.
(A) A FOOD specified in ¶ 3-501.17(A) or (B) shall be discarded if it:
(1) Exceeds the temperature and time combination specified in
¶ 3-501.17(A), except time that the product is frozen; P
(2) Is in a container or PACKAGE that does not bear a date or day; P or
(3) Is inappropriately marked with a date or day that exceeds a
temperature and time combination as specified in ¶ 3-501.17(A) . P
(B) Refrigerated, READY-TO-EAT, TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD
prepared in a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT and dispensed through a VENDING MACHINE
with an automatic shutoff control shall be discarded if it exceeds a
temperature and time combination as specified in ¶ 3-501.17(A). P
3-501.19 Time as a Public Health Control.
(A) Except as specified under ¶ (D) of this section, if time without temperature
control is used as the public health control for a working supply of
TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD before cooking, or for READY-TO-
EAT TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD that is displayed or held for
sale or service:
(1) Written procedures shall be prepared in advance, maintained in the
FOOD ESTABLISHMENT and made available to the REGULATORY AUTHORITY
upon request that specify: Pf
(a) Methods of compliance with Subparagraphs (B)(1)-(4) or
(C)(1)-(5) of this section; Pf and
(b) Methods of compliance with § 3-501.14 for FOOD that is
prepared, cooked, and refrigerated before time is used as a
public health control. Pf
78

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 3. Food
Time – maximum up to 4 hours
(B) If time without temperature control is used as the public health control up to a
maximum of 4 hours:
(1) Except as specified in (B)(2), the food shall have an initial temperature
of 5°C (41ºF) or less when removed from cold holding temperature
control, or 57°C (135°F) or greater when removed from hot holding
temperature control; P
(2) The food may have an initial temperature of 21°C (70°F) or less if;
(a) It is a ready-to-eat fruit or vegetable that upon cutting is
rendered a TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD as
defined in ¶1-201.10(B), or
(b) It is a READY-TO-EAT HERMETICALLY SEALED FOOD that upon
opening is rendered a TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY
FOOD a defined in ¶1-201.10(B),
(c) The FOOD temperature does not exceed 21°C (70°F) within a
maximum time of 4 hours from the time it was rendered a
TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD; and
(d) The FOOD is marked or otherwise identified to indicate the time
that is 4 hours past the point in time when the FOOD is
rendered a TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD as
specified in sub¶¶’ (B)(2)(a) and (b) of this section.
(3) The FOOD shall be marked or otherwise identified to indicate the time
that is 4 hours past the point in time when the FOOD is removed from
temperature control; Pf
(4) The FOOD shall be cooked and served, served at any temperature if
READY-TO-EAT, or discarded, within 4 hours from the point in time when
the FOOD is removed from temperature control; P and
(5) The FOOD in unmarked containers or PACKAGES, or marked to exceed a
4-hour limit shall be discarded. P
Time – maximum up to 6 hours
(C) If time without temperature control is used as the public health control up to a
maximum of 6 hours:
(1) The FOOD shall have an initial temperature of 5ºC (41ºF) or less when
removed from temperature control and the FOOD temperature may not
exceed 21ºC (70ºF) within a maximum time of 6 hours; P
(2) The FOOD shall be monitored to ensure the warmest portion of the
FOOD does not exceed 21ºC (70ºF) during the 6-hour period, unless an
ambient air temperature is maintained that ensures the FOOD does not
exceed 21ºC (70ºF) during the 6-hour holding period; Pf
79

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 3. Food
(3) The FOOD shall be marked or otherwise identified to indicate: Pf
(a) The time when the FOOD is removed from 5ºC (41ºF) or less
cold holding temperature control, Pf and
(b) The time that is 6 hours past the point in time when the FOOD is
removed from cold holding temperature control; Pf
(4) The FOOD shall be:
(a) Discarded if the temperature of the FOOD exceeds 21°C (70°F), P
or
(b) Cooked and served, served at any temperature if READY-TO-EAT,
or discarded within a maximum of 6 hours from the point in time
when the FOOD is removed from 5ºC (41ºF) or less cold holding
temperature control; P and
(5) The FOOD in unmarked containers or PACKAGES, or marked with a time
that exceeds the 6-hour limit shall be discarded . P
(D) A FOOD ESTABLISHMENT that serves a HIGHLY SUSCEPTIBLE POPULATION may not
use time as specified under ¶¶ (A), (B) or (C) of this section as the public
health control for raw EGGS.
3-502 Specialized Processing Methods
3-502.11 Variance Requirement.
A FOOD ESTABLISHMENT shall obtain a VARIANCE from the REGULATORY AUTHORITY
as specified in § 8-103.10 and under § 8-103.11 before: Pf
(A) Smoking FOOD as a method of FOOD preservation rather than as a
method of flavor enhancement; Pf
(B) Curing FOOD; Pf
(C) Using FOOD ADDITIVES or adding components such as vinegar: Pf ,
(1) As a method of FOOD preservation rather than as a method
of flavor enhancement, Pf or
(2) To render a food so that it is NOT TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL
OF SAFETY FOOD; Pf
(D) PACKAGING TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD using a
REDUCED OXYGEN PACKAGING method except where the growth of and
toxin formation by Clostridium botulinum and the growth of Listeria
monocytogenes are controlled as specified under § 3-502.12; Pf
(E) Operating a MOLLUSCAN SHELLFISH life-support system display tank
used to store or display shellfish that are offered for human
consumption; Pf.
80

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 3. Food
(F) Custom processing animals that are for personal use as FOOD and not
for sale or service in a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT; Pf
(G) Preparing FOOD by another method that is determined by the
REGULATORY AUTHORITY to require a VARIANCE; Pf or
(H) Sprouting seeds or beans. Pf
Clostridium botulinum and Listeria monocytogenes Controls
3-502.12 Reduced Oxygen Packaging Without a Variance, Criteria.
(A) Except for a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT that obtains a VARIANCE as specified under
§ 3-502.11, a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT that PACKAGES TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL
FOR SAFETY FOOD using a REDUCED OXYGEN PACKAGING method shall control
the growth and toxin formation of Clostridium botulinum and the growth of
Listeria monocytogenes. P
(B) Except as specified under ¶ (F) of this section, a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT that
PACKAGES TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD using a REDUCED
OXYGEN PACKAGING method shall implement a HACCP PLAN that contains the
information specified under ¶¶ 8-201.14 (C) and (D) and that: Pf
(1) Identifies the FOOD to be PACKAGED; Pf
(2) Except as specified under ¶¶ (C) - (E) of this section, requires that the
PACKAGED FOOD shall be maintained at 5°C (41°F) or less and meet at
least one of the following criteria: Pf
(a) Has an AW of 0.91 or less, Pf
(b) Has a PH of 4.6 or less, Pf
(c) Is a MEAT or POULTRY product cured at a FOOD PROCESSING PLANT
regulated by the USDA using substances specified in
9 CFR 424.21, Use of food ingredients and sources of radiation,
and is received in an intact PACKAGE, Pf or
(d) Is a FOOD with a high level of competing organisms such as raw
MEAT, raw POULTRY, or raw vegetables; Pf
(3) Describes how the PACKAGE shall be prominently and conspicuously
labeled on the principal display panel in bold type on a contrasting
background, with instructions to: Pf
(a) Maintain the FOOD at 5oC (41oF) or below, Pf and
(b) Discard the FOOD if within 30 calendar days of its PACKAGING if it
is not served for on-PREMISES consumption, or consumed if
served or sold for off-PREMISES consumption; Pf
(4) Limits the refrigerated shelf life to no more than 30 calendar days from
PACKAGING to consumption, except the time the product is maintained
81

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 3. Food
frozen, or the original manufacturer’s “sell by” or “use by” date,
whichever occurs first; P
(5) Includes operational procedures that:
(a) Prohibit contacting READY-TO-EAT FOOD with bare hands as
specified under ¶ 3-301.11(B), Pf
(b) Identify a designated work area and the method by which: Pf
(i) Physical barriers or methods of separation of raw FOODS
and READY-TO-EAT FOODS minimize cross contamination,
Pf and
(ii) Access to the processing EQUIPMENT is limited to
responsible trained personnel familiar with the potential
HAZARDS of the operation, Pf and
(c) Delineate cleaning and SANITIZATION procedures for FOOD-
CONTACT SURFACES; Pf and
(6) Describes the training program that ensures that the individual
responsible for the REDUCED OXYGEN PACKAGING operation understands
the: Pf
(a) Concepts required for a safe operation, Pf
(b) EQUIPMENT and facilities, Pf and
(c) Procedures specified under Subparagraph (B)(5) of this section
and ¶¶ 8-201.14 (C) and (D). Pf
(7) Is provided to the REGULATORY AUTHORITY prior to implementation as
specified under ¶ 8-201.13(B).
Fish
(C) Except for FISH that is frozen before, during, and after PACKAGING and bears a
label indicating that it is to be kept frozen until time of use, a FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT may not PACKAGE FISH using a REDUCED OXYGEN PACKAGING
method. P
Cook-Chill or Sous Vide
(D) Except as specified under ¶ (C) and ¶ (F) of this section, a FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT that PACKAGES TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD
using a cook-chill or sous vide process shall:
(1) Provide to the REGULATORY AUTHORITY prior to implementation, a
HACCP PLAN that contains the information as specified under
¶¶ 8-201.14 (C) and (D); Pf
82

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 3. Food
(2) Ensure the FOOD is:
(a) Prepared and consumed on the PREMISES, or prepared and
consumed off the PREMISES but within the same business entity
with no distribution or sale of the PACKAGED product to another
business entity or the CONSUMER, Pf
(b) Cooked to heat all parts of the FOOD to a temperature and for a
time as specified under ¶¶ 3-401.11 (A), (B), and (C), P
(c) Protected from contamination before and after cooking as
specified under Parts 3-3 and 3-4, P
(d) Placed in a PACKAGE with an oxygen barrier and sealed before
cooking, or placed in a PACKAGE and sealed immediately after
cooking and before reaching a temperature below 57°C (135°F) P
(e) Cooled to 5°C (41°F) in the sealed PACKAGE or bag as specified
under § 3-501.14 and: P
(i) Cooled to 1°C (34°F) within 48 hours of reaching 5°C
(41°F) and held at that temperature until consumed or
discarded within 30 days after the date of PACKAGING; P
(ii) Held at 5°C (41°F) or less for no more than 7 days, at
which time the FOOD must be consumed or discarded; P
or
(iii) Cooled to 1°C (34°F) within 48 hours of reaching 5°C
(41°F), removed from refrigeration EQUIPMENT that
maintains a 1°C (34°F) FOOD temperature and then held
at 5°C (41°F) or less for no more than 7 days, not to
exceed 30 days from its date of PACKAGING, at which time
the FOOD must be consumed or discarded; P or
(iv) Held frozen with no shelf-life restriction while frozen until
consumed or used. P
(f) Held in a refrigeration unit that is equipped with an electronic
system that continuously monitors time and temperature and is
visually examined for proper operation twice daily, Pf
(g) If transported off-site to a satellite location of the same business
entity, equipped with verifiable electronic monitoring devices to
ensure that times and temperatures are monitored during
transportation, Pf and
(h) Labeled with the product name and the date PACKAGED; Pf and
83

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 3. Food
(3) Maintain the records required to confirm that cooling and cold holding
refrigeration time/temperature parameters are required as part of the
HACCP PLAN and:
(a) Make such records available to the REGULATORY AUTHORITY upon
request, Pf and
(b) Hold such records for at least 6 months; Pf and
(4) Implement written operational procedures as specified under
Subparagraph (B)(5) of this section and a training program as specified
under Subparagraph (B)(6) of this section. Pf
Cheese
(E) Except as specified under ¶ (F) of this section, a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT that
PACKAGES cheese using a REDUCED OXYGEN PACKAGING method shall:
(1) Limit the cheeses PACKAGED to those that are commercially
manufactured in a FOOD PROCESSING PLANT with no ingredients added
in the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT and that meet the Standards of Identity as
specified in 21 CFR 133.150 Hard cheeses, 21 CFR 133.169
Pasteurized process cheese or 21 CFR 133.187 Semisoft cheeses; P
(2) Have a HACCP PLAN that contains the information specified under ¶¶
8-201.14 (C) and (D) and as specified under ¶¶ (B)(1), (B)(3)(a), (B)(5)
and (B)(6) of this section; Pf
(3) Labels the PACKAGE on the principal display panel with a “use by” date
that does not exceed 30 days from its PACKAGING or the original
manufacturer’s “sell by” or “use by” date, whichever occurs first; Pf and
(4) Discards the REDUCED OXYGEN PACKAGED cheese if it is not sold for off-
PREMISES consumption or consumed within 30 calendar days of its
PACKAGING. Pf
(F) A HACCP Plan is not required when a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT uses a REDUCED
OXYGEN PACKAGING method to PACKAGE TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR
SAFETY FOOD that is always:
(1) Labeled with the production time and date,
(2) Held at 5°C (41°F) or less during refrigerated storage, and
(3) Removed from its PACKAGE in the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT within 48 hours
after PACKAGING.
84

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 3. Food
3-6 Food Identity, Presentation, and On-Premises Labeling
Subparts:
3-601 Accurate Representation
3-602 Labeling
3-603 Consumer Advisory
3-601 Accurate Representation
3-601.11 Standards of Identity.
PACKAGED FOOD shall comply with standard of identity requirements in 21 CFR
131-169 and 9 CFR 319 Definitions and standards of identity or composition, and
the general requirements in 21 CFR 130 – Food Standards: General and 9 CFR
319 Subpart A – General.
3-601.12 Honestly Presented.
(A) FOOD shall be offered for human consumption in a way that does not mislead
or misinform the CONSUMER.
(B) FOOD or COLOR ADDITIVES, colored overwraps, or lights may not be used to
misrepresent the true appearance, color, or quality of a FOOD.
3-602 Labeling
3-602.11 Food Labels.
(A) FOOD PACKAGED in a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT, shall be labeled as specified in
LAW, including 21 CFR 101 - Food labeling, and 9 CFR 317 Labeling, marking
devices, and containers.
(B) Label information shall include:
(1) The common name of the FOOD, or absent a common name, an
adequately descriptive identity statement;
(2) If made from two or more ingredients, a list of ingredients and sub-
ingredients in descending order of predominance by weight, including
a declaration of artificial colors, artificial flavors and chemical
preservatives, if contained in the FOOD;
(3) An accurate declaration of the net quantity of contents;
(4) The name and place of business of the manufacturer, packer, or
distributor; and
(5) The name of the FOOD source for each MAJOR FOOD ALLERGEN
contained in the FOOD unless the FOOD source is already part of the
common or usual name of the respective ingredient. Pf
85

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 3. Food
(6) Except as exempted in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act §
403(q)(3) - (5), nutrition labeling as specified in 21 CFR 101 - Food
Labeling and 9 CFR 317 Subpart B Nutrition Labeling.
(7) For any salmonid FISH containing canthaxanthin or astaxanthin as a
COLOR ADDITIVE, the labeling of the bulk FISH container, including a list
of ingredients, displayed on the retail container or by other written
means, such as a counter card, that discloses the use of canthaxanthin
or astaxanthin.
(C) Bulk FOOD that is available for CONSUMER self-dispensing shall be prominently
labeled with the following information in plain view of the CONSUMER:
1. The manufacturer's or processor's label that was provided with the
FOOD; or
2. A card, sign, or other method of notification that includes the
information specified under Subparagraphs (B)(1), (2), (5) and (6) of
this section.
(D) Bulk, unPACKAGED FOODS such as bakery products and unPACKAGED FOODS
that are portioned to CONSUMER specification need not be labeled if: .
1. A health, nutrient content, or other claim is not made;
2. There are no state or local laws requiring labeling; and
3. The FOOD is manufactured or prepared on the PREMISES of the FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT or at another FOOD ESTABLISHMENT or a FOOD
PROCESSING PLANT that is owned by the same PERSON and is regulated
by the FOOD regulatory agency that has jurisdiction.
3-602.12 Other Forms of Information.
(A) If required by LAW, CONSUMER warnings shall be provided.
(B) FOOD ESTABLISHMENT or manufacturers' dating information on FOODS may not
be concealed or altered.
(C) The PERMIT HOLDER shall notify CONSUMERS by written notification of the
presence of MAJOR FOOD ALLERGENS as an ingredient in unPACKAGED FOOD
items that are served or sold to the CONSUMER.
3-603 Consumer Advisory
3-603.11 Consumption of Animal Foods that are Raw, Undercooked, or Not
Otherwise Processed to Eliminate Pathogens.
(A) Except as specified in ¶ 3-401.11(C) and Subparagraph 3-401.11(D)(4) and
under ¶ 3-801.11(C), if an animal FOOD such as beef, EGGS, FISH, lamb, milk,
pork, POULTRY, or shellfish is served or sold raw, undercooked, or without
otherwise being processed to eliminate pathogens, either in READY-TO-EAT
86

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 3. Food
form or as an ingredient in another READY-TO-EAT FOOD, the PERMIT HOLDER
shall inform CONSUMERS of the significantly increased RISK of consuming such
FOODS by way of a DISCLOSURE and REMINDER, as specified in ¶¶ (B) and (C)
of this section using brochures, deli case or menu advisories, label
statements, table tents, placards, or other effective written means. Pf
(B) DISCLOSURE shall include:
(1) A description of the animal-derived FOODS, such as “oysters on the half
shell (raw oysters) ,” “raw-EGG Caesar salad,” and “hamburgers (can
be cooked to order)”; Pf or
(2) Identification of the animal-derived FOODS by asterisking them to a
footnote that states that the items are served raw or undercooked, or
contain (or may contain) raw or undercooked ingredients. Pf
(C) REMINDER shall include asterisking the animal-derived FOODS requiring
DISCLOSURE to a footnote that states:
(1) Regarding the safety of these items, written information is available
upon request; Pf
(2) Consuming raw or undercooked MEATS, POULTRY, seafood, shellfish, or
EGGS may increase your RISK of foodborne illness; Pf or
(3) Consuming raw or undercooked MEATS, POULTRY, seafood, shellfish, or
EGGS may increase your RISK of foodborne illness, especially if you
have certain medical conditions. Pf
3-7 Contaminated Food
3-701 Disposition
3-701.11 Discarding or Reconditioning Unsafe, Adulterated, or
Contaminated Food.
(A) A FOOD that is unsafe, ADULTERATED, or not honestly presented as specified
under § 3-101.11 shall be discarded or reconditioned according to an
APPROVED procedure. P
(B) FOOD that is not from an APPROVED source as specified under §§ 3-201.11-.17
shall be discarded. P
(C) READY-TO-EAT FOOD that may have been contaminated by an EMPLOYEE who
has been RESTRICTED or EXCLUDED as specified under § 2-201.12 shall be
discarded. P
(D) FOOD that is contaminated by FOOD EMPLOYEES, CONSUMERS, or other PERSONS
through contact with their hands, bodily discharges, such as nasal or oral
discharges, or other means shall be discarded. P
87

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 3. Food
3-8 Special Requirements for Highly Susceptible Populations
3-801 Additional Safeguards
3-801.11 Pasteurized Foods, Prohibited Re-Service, and Prohibited Food.
In a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT that serves a HIGHLY SUSCEPTIBLE POPULATION:
(A) The following criteria apply to JUICE:
(1) For the purposes of this paragraph only, children who are age 9
or less and receive FOOD in a school, day care setting, or similar
facility that provides custodial care are included as HIGHLY
SUSCEPTIBLE POPULATIONS;
(2) PrePACKAGED JUICE or a prePACKAGED BEVERAGE containing
JUICE, that bears a warning label as specified in 21 CFR,
101.17(g) Food labeling, warning, notice, and safe handling
statements, JUICES that have not been specifically processed to
prevent, reduce, or eliminate the presence of pathogens, or a
PACKAGED JUICE or BEVERAGE containing JUICE, that bears a
warning label as specified under ¶ 3-404.11(B) may not be
served or offered for sale; P and
(3) UnPACKAGED JUICE that is prepared on the premises for service
or sale in a READY-TO-EAT form shall be processed under a
HACCP PLAN that contains the information specified under
§8-201.14 (C) - (E) and as specified in 21 CFR Part 120 –
Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP) Systems,
Subpart B Pathogen Reduction, 120.24 Process controls. P
(B) Pasteurized EGGS or EGG PRODUCTS shall be substituted for raw EGGS
in the preparation of: P
(1) FOODS such as Caesar salad, hollandaise or Béarnaise sauce,
mayonnaise, meringue, EGGnog, ice cream, and EGG-fortified
BEVERAGES, P and
(2) Except as specified in ¶ (F) of this section, recipes in which
more than one EGG is broken and the EGGS are combined; P
(C) The following FOODS may not be served or offered for sale in a READY-
TO-EAT form: P
(1) Raw animal FOODS such as raw FISH, raw-marinated FISH, raw
MOLLUSCAN SHELLFISH, and steak tartare, P
(2) A partially cooked animal FOOD such as lightly cooked FISH, rare
MEAT, soft-cooked EGGS that are made from raw EGGS, and
meringue; P and
(3) Raw seed sprouts. P
88

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 3. Food
(4) PACKAGED FOOD as specified under § 3-401.15.
(D) FOOD EMPLOYEES may not contact READY-TO-EAT FOOD as specified
under ¶¶ 3-301.11(B) and (E). P
(E) Time only, as the public health control as specified under ¶
3-501.19(D), may not be used for raw EGGS. P .
(F) Subparagraph (B)(2) of this section does not apply if:
(1) The raw EGGS are combined immediately before cooking for one
CONSUMER’s serving at a single meal, cooked as specified under
Subparagraph 3-401.11(A)(1), and served immediately, such as
an omelet, soufflé, or scrambled EGGS;
(2) The raw EGGS are combined as an ingredient immediately
before baking and the EGGS are thoroughly cooked to a READY-
TO-EAT form, such as a cake, muffin, or bread; or
(3) The preparation of the FOOD is conducted under a HACCP PLAN
that:
(a) Identifies the FOOD to be prepared,
(b) Prohibits contacting READY-TO-EAT FOOD with bare hands,
(c) Includes specifications and practices that ensure:
(i) Salmonella Enteritidis growth is controlled before
and after cooking, and
(ii) Salmonella Enteritidis is destroyed by cooking
the EGGS according to the temperature and time
specified in Subparagraph 3-401.11(A)(2),
(d) Contains the information specified under ¶ 8-201.14(D)
including procedures that:
(i) Control cross contamination of READY-TO-EAT FOOD
with raw EGGS, and
(ii) Delineate cleaning and SANITIZATION procedures
for FOOD-CONTACT SURFACES, and
(e) Describes the training program that ensures that the
FOOD EMPLOYEE responsible for the preparation of the
FOOD understands the procedures to be used.
Re-service of food
(G) Except as specified in paragraph (H) of this section, FOOD may be re-
served as specified under Subparagraph 3-306.14(B)(1) and
(2).Prohibited re-service of food
(H) FOOD may not be re-served under the following conditions:
89

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 3. Food
(1) Any FOOD served to patients or clients who are under contact
precautions in medical isolation or quarantine, or protective
environment isolation may not be re-served to others outside.
(2) PACKAGES of FOOD from any patients, clients, or other
CONSUMERS should not be re-served to PERSONS in protective
environment isolation.
90

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 4. Equipment, Utensils, and Linens
Chapter 4. Equipment, Utensils,
and Linens
Parts:
4-1 Materials for Construction and Repair
4-2 Design and Construction
4-3 Numbers and Capacities
4-4 Location and Installation
4-5 Maintenance and Operation
4-6 Cleaning of Equipment and Utensils
4-7 Sanitization of Equipment and Utensils
4-8 Laundering
4-9 Protection of Clean Items
4-1 Materials for Construction and Repair
4-101 Multiuse
4-101.11 Characteristics.
Materials that are used in the construction of UTENSILS and FOOD-CONTACT
SURFACES of EQUIPMENT may not allow the migration of deleterious substances or
impart colors, odors, or tastes to FOOD and under normal use conditions shall be:
P
(A) Safe; P
(B) Durable, CORROSION-RESISTANT, and nonabsorbent;
(C) Sufficient in weight and thickness to withstand repeated WAREWASHING;
(D) Finished to have a SMOOTH, EASILY CLEANABLE surface; and
(E) Resistant to pitting, chipping, crazing, scratching, scoring, distortion,
and decomposition.
4-101.12 Cast Iron, Use Limitation.
(A) Except as specified in ¶¶ (B) and (C) of this section, cast iron may not be
used for UTENSILS or FOOD-CONTACT SURFACES of EQUIPMENT.
(B) Cast iron may be used as a surface for cooking.
(C) Cast iron may be used in UTENSILS for serving FOOD if the UTENSILS are used
only as part of an uninterrupted process from cooking through service.
91

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 4. Equipment, Utensils, and Linens
4-101.13 Lead, Use Limitation.
(A) Ceramic, china, and crystal UTENSILS, and decorative UTENSILS such as hand
painted ceramic or china that are used in contact with FOOD shall be lead-free
or contain levels of lead not exceeding the limits of the following UTENSIL
categories: P
Utensil Ceramic Article Maximum
Category Description Lead (mg/L)
Beverage Mugs, Cups, Coffee Mugs 0.5
Pitchers
Large Hollowware Bowls > 1.1 Liter 1
(excluding pitchers)
(1.16 Quart)
Small Hollowware Bowls < 1.1 Liter 2.0
(excluding cups & mugs)
(1.16 Quart)
FLAT TABLEWARE Plates, Saucers 3.0
(B) Pewter alloys containing lead over 0.05% may not be used as a FOOD-
CONTACT SURFACE. P
(C) Solder and flux containing lead over 0.2% may not be used as a FOOD-
CONTACT SURFACE.
4-101.14 Copper, Use Limitation.
(A) Except as specified in ¶ (B) of this section, copper and copper alloys such as
brass may not be used in contact with a FOOD that has a PH below 6 such as
vinegar, fruit JUICE, or wine or for a fitting or tubing installed between a
backflow prevention device and a carbonator. P
(B) Copper and copper alloys may be used in contact with beer brewing
ingredients that have a PH below 6 in the pre-fermentation and fermentation
steps of a beer brewing operation such as a brewpub or microbrewery.
4-101.15 Galvanized Metal, Use Limitation.
Galvanized metal may not be used for UTENSILS or FOOD-CONTACT SURFACES of
EQUIPMENT that are used in contact with acidic FOOD. P
4-101.16 Sponges, Use Limitation.
Sponges may not be used in contact with cleaned and SANITIZED or in-use FOOD-
CONTACT SURFACES.
4-101.17 Wood, Use Limitation.
(A) Except as specified in ¶¶ (B), (C), and (D) of this section, wood and wood
wicker may not be used as a FOOD-CONTACT SURFACE.
92

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 4. Equipment, Utensils, and Linens
(B) Hard maple or an equivalently hard, close-grained wood may be used for:
(1) Cutting boards; cutting blocks; bakers' tables; and UTENSILS such as
rolling pins, doughnut dowels, salad bowls, and chopsticks; and
(2) Wooden paddles used in confectionery operations for pressure
scraping kettles when manually preparing confections at a temperature
of 110°C (230°F) or above.
(C) Whole, uncut, raw fruits and vegetables, and nuts in the shell may be kept in
the wood shipping containers in which they were received, until the fruits,
vegetables, or nuts are used.
(D) If the nature of the FOOD requires removal of rinds, peels, husks, or shells
before consumption, the whole, uncut, raw FOOD may be kept in:
(1) Untreated wood containers; or
(2) Treated wood containers if the containers are treated with a
preservative that meets the requirements specified in 21 CFR
178.3800 Preservatives for wood.
4-101.18 Nonstick Coatings, Use Limitation.
Multiuse KITCHENWARE such as frying pans, griddles, sauce pans, cookie sheets,
and waffle bakers that have a perfluorocarbon resin coating shall be used with
nonscoring or nonscratching UTENSILS and cleaning aids.
4-101.19 Nonfood-Contact Surfaces.
NonFOOD-CONTACT SURFACES of EQUIPMENT that are exposed to splash, spillage,
or other FOOD soiling or that require frequent cleaning shall be constructed of a
CORROSION-RESISTANT, nonabsorbent, and SMOOTH material.
Single-Service and Single-Use
4-102.11 Characteristics.
Materials that are used to make SINGLE-SERVICE and SINGLE-USE ARTICLES:
(A) May not:
(1) Allow the migration of deleterious substances, P or
(2) Impart colors, odors, or tastes to FOOD; and
(B) Shall be:
(1) Safe, P and
(2) Clean.
93

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 4. Equipment, Utensils, and Linens
4-2 Design and Construction
Subparts:
4-201 Durability and Strength
4-202 Cleanability
4-203 Accuracy
4-204 Functionality
4-205 Acceptability
4-201 Durability and Strength
4-201.11 Equipment and Utensils.
EQUIPMENT and UTENSILS shall be designed and constructed to be durable and to
retain their characteristic qualities under normal use conditions.
4-201.12 Food Temperature Measuring Devices.
FOOD TEMPERATURE MEASURING DEVICES may not have sensors or stems
constructed of glass, except that thermometers with glass sensors or stems that
are encased in a shatterproof coating such as candy thermometers may be used. P
4-202 Cleanability
4-202.11 Food-Contact Surfaces.
(A) Multiuse FOOD-CONTACT SURFACES shall be:
(1) SMOOTH; Pf
(2) Free of breaks, open seams, cracks, chips, inclusions, pits, and similar
imperfections; Pf
(3) Free of sharp internal angles, corners, and crevices; Pf
(4) Finished to have SMOOTH welds and joints; Pf and
(5) Except as specified in ¶ (B) of this section, accessible for cleaning and
inspection by one of the following methods:
(a) Without being disassembled, Pf
(b) By disassembling without the use of tools, Pf or
(c) By easy disassembling with the use of handheld tools commonly
available to maintenance and cleaning personnel such as
screwdrivers, pliers, open-end wrenches, and Allen wrenches. Pf
(B) Subparagraph (A)(5) of this section does not apply to cooking oil storage
tanks, distribution lines for cooking oils, or BEVERAGE syrup lines or tubes.
94

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 4. Equipment, Utensils, and Linens
4-202.12 CIP Equipment.
(A) CIP EQUIPMENT shall meet the characteristics specified under § 4-202.11 and
shall be designed and constructed so that:
(1) Cleaning and SANITIZING solutions circulate throughout a fixed system
and contact all interior FOOD-CONTACT SURFACES, Pf and
(2) The system is self-draining or capable of being completely drained of
cleaning and SANITIZING solutions; and
(B) CIP EQUIPMENT that is not designed to be disassembled for cleaning shall be
designed with inspection access points to ensure that all interior FOOD-CONTACT
SURFACES throughout the fixed system are being effectively cleaned.
4-202.13 "V" Threads, Use Limitation.
Except for hot oil cooking or filtering EQUIPMENT, "V" type threads may not be
used on FOOD-CONTACT SURFACES.
4-202.14 Hot Oil Filtering Equipment.
Hot oil filtering EQUIPMENT shall meet the characteristics specified under
§ 4-202.11 or § 4-202.12 and shall be readily accessible for filter replacement
and cleaning of the filter.
4-202.15 Can Openers.
Cutting or piercing parts of can openers shall be readily removable for cleaning
and for replacement.
4-202.16 Nonfood-Contact Surfaces.
NonFOOD-CONTACT SURFACES shall be free of unnecessary ledges, projections,
and crevices, and designed and constructed to allow easy cleaning and to
facilitate maintenance.
4-202.17 Kick Plates, Removable.
Kick plates shall be designed so that the areas behind them are accessible for
inspection and cleaning by being:
(A) Removable by one of the methods specified under Subparagraph
4-202.11(A)(5) or capable of being rotated open; and
(B) Removable or capable of being rotated open without unlocking
EQUIPMENT doors.
4-202.18 Ventilation Hood Systems, Filters.
Filters or other grease extracting EQUIPMENT shall be designed to be readily
removable for cleaning and replacement if not designed to be cleaned in place.
95

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 4. Equipment, Utensils, and Linens
4-203 Accuracy
4-203.11 Temperature Measuring Devices, Food.
(A) FOOD TEMPERATURE MEASURING DEVICES that are scaled only in Celsius or
dually scaled in Celsius and Fahrenheit shall be accurate to ±1°C in the
intended range of use. Pf
(B) FOOD TEMPERATURE MEASURING DEVICES that are scaled only in Fahrenheit
shall be accurate to ±2°F in the intended range of use. Pf
4-203.12 Temperature Measuring Devices, Ambient Air and Water.
(A) Ambient air and water TEMPERATURE MEASURING DEVICES that are scaled in
Celsius or dually scaled in Celsius and Fahrenheit shall be designed to be
easily readable and accurate to ±1.5°C in the intended range of use. Pf
(B) Ambient air and water TEMPERATURE MEASURING DEVICES that are scaled only
in Fahrenheit shall be accurate to ±3°F in the intended range of use. Pf
4-203.13 Pressure Measuring Devices, Mechanical Warewashing
Equipment.
Pressure measuring devices that display the pressures in the water supply line
for the fresh hot water SANITIZING rinse shall have increments of 7 kilopascals
(1 pound per square inch) or smaller and shall be accurate to ±14 kilopascals
(±2 pounds per square inch) in the range indicated on the manufacturer’s data
plate.
4-204 Functionality
4-204.11 Ventilation Hood Systems, Drip Prevention.
Exhaust ventilation hood systems in FOOD preparation and WAREWASHING areas
including components such as hoods, fans, guards, and ducting shall be
designed to prevent grease or condensation from draining or dripping onto FOOD,
EQUIPMENT, UTENSILS, LINENS, and SINGLE-SERVICE and SINGLE-USE ARTICLES.
4-204.12 Equipment Openings, Closures and Deflectors.
(A) A cover or lid for EQUIPMENT shall overlap the opening and be sloped to drain.
(B) An opening located within the top of a unit of EQUIPMENT that is designed for
use with a cover or lid shall be flanged upward at least 5 millimeters
(two-tenths of an inch).
(C) Except as specified under ¶ (D) of this section, fixed piping, TEMPERATURE
MEASURING DEVICES, rotary shafts, and other parts extending into EQUIPMENT
shall be provided with a watertight joint at the point where the item enters the
EQUIPMENT.
96

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 4. Equipment, Utensils, and Linens
(D) If a watertight joint is not provided:
(1) The piping, TEMPERATURE MEASURING DEVICES, rotary shafts, and other
parts extending through the openings shall be equipped with an apron
designed to deflect condensation, drips, and dust from openings into
the FOOD; and
(2) The opening shall be flanged as specified under ¶ (B) of this section.
4-204.13 Dispensing Equipment, Protection of Equipment and Food.
In EQUIPMENT that dispenses or vends liquid FOOD or ice in unPACKAGED form:
(A) The delivery tube, chute, orifice, and splash surfaces directly above the
container receiving the FOOD shall be designed in a manner, such as
with barriers, baffles, or drip aprons, so that drips from condensation
and splash are diverted from the opening of the container receiving the
FOOD;
(B) The delivery tube, chute, and orifice shall be protected from manual
contact such as by being recessed;
(C) The delivery tube or chute and orifice of EQUIPMENT used to vend liquid
FOOD or ice in unPACKAGED form to self-service CONSUMERS shall be
designed so that the delivery tube or chute and orifice are protected
from dust, insects, rodents, and other contamination by a self-closing
door if the EQUIPMENT is:
(1) Located in an outside area that does not otherwise afford the
protection of an enclosure against the rain, windblown debris,
insects, rodents, and other contaminants that are present in the
environment, or
(2) Available for self-service during hours when it is not under the
full-time supervision of a FOOD EMPLOYEE; and
(D) The dispensing equipment actuating lever or mechanism and filling
device of consumer self-service beverage dispensing equipment shall
be designed to prevent contact with the lip-contact surface of glasses
or cups that are refilled.
(E) Dispensing equipment in which time/temperature control for safety
food in a homogenous liquid form is maintained outside of the
temperature control requirements as specified under § 3-501.16(A)
shall:
(1) Be specifically designed and equipped to maintain the
commercial sterility of aseptically PACKAGED FOOD in a
homogenous liquid form for a specified duration from the time of
opening the PACKAGING within the EQUIPMENT; P and
97

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 4. Equipment, Utensils, and Linens
(2) Conform to the requirements for this EQUIPMENT as specified in
NSF/ANSI 18-2006- Manual Food and Beverage Dispensing
Equipment. P
4-204.14 Vending Machine, Vending Stage Closure.
The dispensing compartment of a VENDING MACHINE including a machine that is
designed to vend prePACKAGED snack FOOD that is not TIME/TEMPERATURE
CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD such as chips, party mixes, and pretzels shall be
equipped with a self-closing door or cover if the machine is:
(A) Located in an outside area that does not otherwise afford the
protection of an enclosure against the rain, windblown debris, insects,
rodents, and other contaminants that are present in the environment;
or
(B) Available for self-service during hours when it is not under the full-time
supervision of a FOOD EMPLOYEE.
4-204.15 Bearings and Gear Boxes, Leakproof.
EQUIPMENT containing bearings and gears that require lubricants shall be
designed and constructed so that the lubricant cannot leak, drip, or be forced into
FOOD or onto FOOD-CONTACT SURFACES.
4-204.16 Beverage Tubing, Separation.
Except for cold plates that are constructed integrally with an ice storage bin,
BEVERAGE tubing and cold-plate BEVERAGE cooling devices may not be installed in
contact with stored ice.
4-204.17 Ice Units, Separation of Drains.
Liquid waste drain lines may not pass through an ice machine or ice storage bin.
4-204.18 Condenser Unit, Separation.
If a condenser unit is an integral component of EQUIPMENT, the condenser unit
shall be separated from the FOOD and FOOD storage space by a dustproof barrier.
4-204.19 Can Openers on Vending Machines.
Cutting or piercing parts of can openers on VENDING MACHINES shall be protected
from manual contact, dust, insects, rodents, and other contamination.
4-204.110 Molluscan Shellfish Tanks.
(A) Except as specified under ¶ (B) of this section, MOLLUSCAN SHELLFISH life
support system display tanks may not be used to store or display shellfish
that are offered for human consumption and shall be conspicuously marked
so that it is obvious to the CONSUMER that the shellfish are for display only. P
98

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 4. Equipment, Utensils, and Linens
(B) MOLLUSCAN SHELLFISH life-support system display tanks that are used to store
or display shellfish that are offered for human consumption shall be operated
and maintained in accordance with a VARIANCE granted by the REGULATORY
AUTHORITY as specified in § 8-103.10 and a HACCP PLAN that: Pf
(1) Is submitted by the PERMIT HOLDER and APPROVED as specified under
§ 8-103.11; Pf and
(2) Ensures that:
(a) Water used with FISH other than MOLLUSCAN SHELLFISH does not
flow into the molluscan tank, Pf
(b) The safety and quality of the shellfish as they were received are
not compromised using the tank, Pf and
(c) The identity of the source of the SHELLSTOCK is retained as
specified under § 3-203.12. Pf
4-204.111 Vending Machines, Automatic Shutoff.
(A) A machine vending TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD shall have
an automatic control that prevents the machine from vending FOOD:
(1) If there is a power failure, mechanical failure, or other condition that
results in an internal machine temperature that cannot maintain FOOD
temperatures as specified under Chapter 3; P and
(2) If a condition specified under Subparagraph (A)(1) of this section
occurs, until the machine is serviced and restocked with FOOD that has
been maintained at temperatures specified under Chapter 3. P
(B) When the automatic shutoff within a machine vending TIME/TEMPERATURE
CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD is activated:
(1) In a refrigerated VENDING MACHINE, the ambient air temperature may not
exceed 5°C (41°F) for more than 30 minutes immediately after the
machine is filled, serviced, or restocked; P or
(2) In a hot holding VENDING MACHINE, the ambient air temperature may not
be less than 57°C (135°F) for more than 120 minutes immediately after
the machine is filled, serviced, or restocked. P
4-204.112 Temperature Measuring Devices.
(A) In a mechanically refrigerated or hot FOOD storage unit, the sensor of a
TEMPERATURE MEASURING DEVICE shall be located to measure the air
temperature or a simulated product temperature in the warmest part of a
mechanically refrigerated unit and in the coolest part of a hot FOOD storage
unit.
(B) Except as specified in ¶ (C) of this section, cold or hot holding EQUIPMENT
used for TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD shall be designed to
include and shall be equipped with at least one integral or permanently affixed
99

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 4. Equipment, Utensils, and Linens
TEMPERATURE MEASURING DEVICE that is located to allow easy viewing of the
device's temperature display.
(C) Paragraph (B) of this section does not apply to EQUIPMENT for which the
placement of a TEMPERATURE MEASURING DEVICE is not a practical means for
measuring the ambient air surrounding the FOOD because of the design, type,
and use of the EQUIPMENT, such as calrod units, heat lamps, cold plates, bain-
maries, steam tables, insulated FOOD transport containers, and salad bars.
(D) TEMPERATURE MEASURING DEVICES shall be designed to be easily readable.
(E) FOOD TEMPERATURE MEASURING DEVICES and water TEMPERATURE MEASURING
DEVICES on WAREWASHING machines shall have a numerical scale, printed
record, or digital readout in increments no greater than 1°C or 2°F in the
intended range of use. Pf
4-204.113 Warewashing Machine, Data Plate Operating Specifications.
A WAREWASHING machine shall be provided with an easily accessible and
readable data plate affixed to the machine by the manufacturer that indicates the
machine’s design and operation specifications including the:
(A) Temperatures required for washing, rinsing, and SANITIZING;
(B) Pressure required for the freshwater SANITIZING rinse unless the
machine is designed to use only a pumped SANITIZING rinse; and
(C) Conveyor speed for conveyor machines or cycle time for stationary
rack machines
4-204.114 Warewashing Machines, Internal Baffles.
WAREWASHING machine wash and rinse tanks shall be equipped with baffles,
curtains, or other means to minimize internal cross contamination of the solutions
in wash and rinse tanks.
4-204.115 Warewashing Machines, Temperature Measuring Devices.
A WAREWASHING machine shall be equipped with a TEMPERATURE MEASURING
DEVICE that indicates the temperature of the water:
(A) In each wash and rinse tank; Pf and
(B) As the water enters the hot water SANITIZING final rinse manifold or in
the chemical SANITIZING solution tank. Pf
4-204.116 Manual Warewashing Equipment, Heaters and Baskets.
If hot water is used for SANITIZATION in manual WAREWASHING operations, the
SANITIZING compartment of the sink shall be:
(A) Designed with an integral heating device that can maintain water at a
temperature not less than 77oC (171oF); Pf and
100

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 4. Equipment, Utensils, and Linens
(B) Provided with a rack. or basket to allow complete immersion of
equipment and utensils into the hot water. Pf
4-204.117 Warewashing Machines, Automatic Dispensing of Detergents and
Sanitizers
A WAREWASHING machine that is installed after adoption of this Code by the
REGULATORY AUTHORITY, shall be equipped to:
(A) .Automatically dispense detergents and SANITIZERS; Pf and
(B) Incorporate a visual means to verify that detergents and SANITIZERS are
delivered or a visual or audible alarm to signal if the detergents and
SANITIZERS are not delivered to the respective washing and SANITIZING
cycles. Pf
4-204.118 Warewashing Machines, Flow Pressure Device.
(A) WAREWASHING machines that provide a fresh hot water SANITIZING rinse shall
be equipped with a pressure gauge or similar device such as a transducer
that measures and displays the water pressure in the supply line immediately
before entering the WAREWASHING machine; and
(B) If the flow pressure measuring device is upstream of the fresh hot water
SANITIZING rinse control valve, the device shall be mounted in a 6.4 millimeter
or one-fourth inch Iron Pipe Size (IPS) valve.
(C) Paragraphs (A) and (B) of this section do not apply to a machine that uses
only a pumped or recirculated SANITIZING rinse.
4-204.119 Warewashing Sinks and Drainboards, Self-Draining.
Sinks and drainboards of WAREWASHING sinks and machines shall be self-
draining.
4-204.120 Equipment Compartments, Drainage.
EQUIPMENT compartments that are subject to accumulation of moisture due to
conditions such as condensation, FOOD or BEVERAGE drip, or water from melting
ice shall be sloped to an outlet that allows complete draining.
4-204.121 Vending Machines, Liquid Waste Products.
(A) VENDING MACHINES designed to store BEVERAGES that are PACKAGED in
containers made from paper products shall be equipped with diversion
devices and retention pans or drains for container leakage.
(B) VENDING MACHINES that dispense liquid FOOD in bulk shall be:
(1) Provided with an internally mounted waste receptacle for the collection
of drip, spillage, overflow, or other internal wastes; and
(2) Equipped with an automatic shutoff device that will place the machine
out of operation before the waste receptacle overflows.
101

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 4. Equipment, Utensils, and Linens
(C) Shutoff devices specified under Subparagraph (B)(2) of this section shall
prevent water or liquid FOOD from continuously running if there is a failure of a
flow control device in the water or liquid FOOD system or waste accumulation
that could lead to overflow of the waste receptacle.
4-204.122 Case Lot Handling Apparatuses, Moveability.
Apparatuses, such as dollies, pallets, racks., and skids used to store and
transport large quantities of PACKAGED FOODS received from a supplier in a cased
or overwrapped lot, shall be designed to be moved by hand or by conveniently
available apparatuses such as hand trucks and forklifts.
4-204.123 Vending Machine Doors and Openings.
(A) VENDING MACHINE doors and access opening covers to FOOD and container
storage spaces shall be tight-fitting so that the space along the entire
interface between the doors or covers and the cabinet of the machine, if the
doors or covers are in a closed position, is no greater than 1.5 millimeters or
one-sixteenth inch by:
(1) Being covered with louvers, screens, or materials that provide an
equivalent opening of not greater than 1.5 millimeters or one-sixteenth
inch. Screening of 12 or more mesh to 2.5 centimeters (12 mesh to 1
inch) meets this requirement;
(2) Being effectively gasketed;
(3) Having interface surfaces that are at least 13 millimeters or one-half
inch wide; or
(4) Jambs or surfaces used to form an L-shaped entry path to the
interface.
(B) VENDING MACHINE service connection openings through an exterior wall of a
machine shall be closed by sealants, clamps, or grommets so that the
openings are no larger than 1.5 millimeters or one-sixteenth inch.
4-205 Acceptability
4-205.10 Equipment, Certification and Classification.
FOOD EQUIPMENT that is certified or classified for sanitation in conformance to a
recognized American National Standard by an American National Standards
Institute (ANSI)-accredited certification program is deemed to comply with Parts
4-1 and 4-2 of this chapter.
102

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 4. Equipment, Utensils, and Linens
4-3 Numbers and Capacities
Subparts:
4-301 Equipment
4-302 Utensils, Temperature Measuring Devices, and Testing Devices
4-303 Cleaning Agents and Sanitizers
4-301 Equipment
4-301.11 Cooling, Heating, and Holding Capacities.
EQUIPMENT for cooling and heating FOOD, and holding cold and hot FOOD, shall be
sufficient in number and capacity to provide FOOD temperatures as specified
under Chapter 3. Pf
4-301.12 Manual Warewashing, Sink Compartment Requirements.
(A) Except as specified in ¶ (C) of this section, a sink with at least three (3)
compartments shall be provided for manually washing, rinsing, and SANITIZING
EQUIPMENT and UTENSILS. Pf
(B) Sink compartments shall be large enough to accommodate immersion of the
largest EQUIPMENT and UTENSILS. If EQUIPMENT or UTENSILS are too large for the
WAREWASHING sink, a WAREWASHING machine or alternative EQUIPMENT as
specified in ¶ (C) of this section shall be used. Pf
(C) Alternative manual WAREWASHING EQUIPMENT may be used when there are
special cleaning needs or constraints, and its use is APPROVED. Alternative
manual WAREWASHING EQUIPMENT may include:
(1) High-pressure detergent sprayers;
(2) Low- or line-pressure spray detergent foamers;
(3) Other task-specific cleaning EQUIPMENT;
(4) Brushes or other implements;
(5) 2-compartment sinks as specified under ¶¶ (D) and (E) of this section;
or
(6) Receptacles that substitute for the compartments of a
multicompartment sink.
(D) Before a 2-compartment sink is used:
(1) The PERMIT HOLDER shall have its use APPROVED; and
(2) The PERMIT HOLDER shall limit the number of KITCHENWARE items
cleaned and SANITIZED in the 2-compartment sink, and shall limit
WAREWASHING to batch operations for cleaning KITCHENWARE such as
103

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 4. Equipment, Utensils, and Linens
between cutting one type of raw MEAT and another or cleanup at the
end of a shift, and shall:
(a) Make up the cleaning and SANITIZING solutions immediately
before use and drain them immediately after use, and
(b) Use a detergent-SANITIZER to SANITIZE and apply the detergent-
SANITIZER in accordance with the manufacturer’s label
instructions and as specified under § 4-501.115, or
(c) Use a hot water SANITIZATION immersion step as specified under
¶ 4-603.16(C).
(E) A 2-compartment sink may not be used for WAREWASHING operations where
cleaning and SANITIZING solutions are used for a continuous or intermittent
flow of KITCHENWARE or TABLEWARE in an ongoing WAREWASHING process.
4-301.13 Drainboards.
Drainboards, UTENSIL racks, or tables large enough to accommodate all soiled
and cleaned items that may accumulate during hours of operation shall be
provided for necessary UTENSIL holding before cleaning and after SANITIZING.
4-301.14 Ventilation Hood Systems, Adequacy.
Ventilation hood systems and devices shall be sufficient in number and capacity
to prevent grease or condensation from collecting on walls and ceilings.
4-301.15 Clothes Washers and Dryers.
(A) Except as specified in ¶ (B) of this section, if work clothes or LINENS are
laundered on the PREMISES, a mechanical clothes washer and dryer shall be
provided and used.
(B) If on-PREMISES laundering is limited to wiping cloths intended to be used
moist, or wiping cloths are air-dried as specified under § 4-901.12, a
mechanical clothes washer and dryer need not be provided.
4-302 Utensils, Temperature Measuring Devices, and Testing Devices
4-302.11 Utensils, Consumer Self-Service.
A FOOD dispensing UTENSIL shall be available for each container displayed at a
CONSUMER self-service unit such as a buffet or salad bar. Pf
4-302.12 Food Temperature Measuring Devices.
(A) FOOD TEMPERATURE MEASURING DEVICES shall be provided and readily
accessible for use in ensuring attainment and maintenance of FOOD
temperatures as specified under Chapter 3. Pf
104

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 4. Equipment, Utensils, and Linens
(B) A TEMPERATURE MEASURING DEVICE with a suitable small-diameter probe that is
designed to measure the temperature of thin masses shall be provided and
readily accessible to accurately measure the temperature in thin FOODS such
as MEAT patties and FISH filets. Pf
4-302.13 Temperature Measuring Devices, Manual and Mechanical
Warewashing.
(A) In manual WAREWASHING operations, a TEMPERATURE MEASURING DEVICE shall
be provided and readily accessible for frequently measuring the washing and
SANITIZING temperatures. Pf
(B) In hot water mechanical WAREWASHING operations, an irreversible registering
temperature indicator shall be provided and readily accessible for measuring
the UTENSIL surface temperature. Pf
4-302.14 Sanitizing Solutions, Testing Devices.
A test kit or other device that accurately measures the concentration in MG/L of
SANITIZING solutions shall be provided. Pf
4-303 Cleaning Agents and Sanitizers
4-303.11 Cleaning Agents and Sanitizers, Availability.
(A) Cleaning agents that are used to clean EQUIPMENT and UTENSILS as specified
under Part 4-6, shall be provided and available for use during all hours of
operation. Pf
(B) Except for those that are generated on-site at the time of use, chemical
SANITIZERS that are used to sanitize EQUIPMENT and UTENSILS as specified
under Part 4-7, shall be provided and available for use during all hours of
operation. Pf
4-4 Location and Installation
Subparts:
4-401 Location
4-402 Installation
4-401 Location
4-401.11 Equipment, Clothes Washers and Dryers, and Storage Cabinets,
Contamination Prevention.
(A) Except as specified in ¶ (B) of this section, EQUIPMENT, a cabinet used for the
storage of FOOD, or a cabinet that is used to store cleaned and SANITIZED
EQUIPMENT, UTENSILS, laundered LINENS, and SINGLE-SERVICE and SINGLE-USE
ARTICLES may not be located:
105

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 4. Equipment, Utensils, and Linens
(1) In locker rooms;
(2) In toilet rooms; Pf
(3) In garbage rooms;
(4) In mechanical rooms;
(5) Under sewer lines that are not shielded to intercept potential drips;
(6) Under leaking water lines including leaking automatic fire sprinkler
heads or under lines on which water has condensed;
(7) Under open stairwells; or
(8) Under other sources of contamination.
(B) A storage cabinet used for LINENS or SINGLE-SERVICE or SINGLE-USE ARTICLES
may be stored in a locker room.
(C) If a mechanical clothes washer or dryer is provided, it shall be located so that
the washer or dryer is protected from contamination and only where there is
no exposed FOOD; clean EQUIPMENT, UTENSILS, and LINENS; and unwrapped
SINGLE-SERVICE and SINGLE-USE ARTICLES.
4-402 Installation
4-402.11 Fixed Equipment, Spacing or Sealing.
(A) EQUIPMENT that is fixed because it is not EASILY MOVABLE shall be installed so
that it is:
(1) Spaced to allow access for cleaning along the sides, behind, and
above the EQUIPMENT;
(2) Spaced from adjoining EQUIPMENT, walls, and ceilings not more than 1
millimeter or one thirty-second inch; or
(3) SEALED to adjoining EQUIPMENT or walls if the EQUIPMENT is exposed to
spillage or seepage.
(B) COUNTER-MOUNTED EQUIPMENT that is not EASILY MOVABLE shall be installed to
allow cleaning of the EQUIPMENT and areas underneath and around the
EQUIPMENT by being:
(1) Sealed; or
(2) Elevated on legs as specified under ¶ 4-402.12(D).
4-402.12 Fixed Equipment, Elevation or Sealing.
(A) Except as specified in ¶¶ (B) and (C) of this section, floor-mounted EQUIPMENT
that is not EASILY MOVABLE shall be SEALED to the floor or elevated on legs that
provide at least a 15-centimeter (6-inch) clearance between the floor and the
EQUIPMENT.
106

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 4. Equipment, Utensils, and Linens
(B) If no part of the floor under the floor-mounted EQUIPMENT is more than 15
centimeters (6 inches) from the point of cleaning access, the clearance space
may be only 10 centimeters (4 inches).
(C) This section does not apply to display shelving units, display refrigeration
units, and display freezer units located in the CONSUMER shopping areas of a
retail FOOD store, if the floor under the units is maintained clean.
(D) Except as specified in ¶ (E) of this section, COUNTER-MOUNTED EQUIPMENT that
is not EASILY MOVABLE shall be elevated on legs that provide at least a 10-
centimeter (4-inch) clearance between the table and the EQUIPMENT.
(E) The clearance space between the table and COUNTER-MOUNTED EQUIPMENT
may be:
(1) 7.5 centimeters (3 inches) if the horizontal distance of the table top
under the EQUIPMENT is no more than 50 centimeters (20 inches) from
the point of access for cleaning; or
(2) 5 centimeters (2 inches) if the horizontal distance of the table top under
the EQUIPMENT is no more than 7.5 centimeters (3 inches) from the
point of access for cleaning.
4-5 Maintenance and Operation
Subparts:
4-501 Equipment
4-502 Utensils and Temperature and Pressure Measuring Devices
4-501 Equipment
4-501.11 Good Repair and Proper Adjustment.
(A) EQUIPMENT shall be maintained in a state of repair and condition that meets
the requirements specified under Parts 4-1 and 4-2.
(B) EQUIPMENT components such as doors, seals, hinges, fasteners, and kick
plates shall be kept intact, tight, and adjusted in accordance with
manufacturer's specifications.
(C) Cutting or piercing parts of can openers shall be kept sharp to minimize the
creation of metal fragments that can contaminate FOOD when the container is
opened.
4-501.12 Cutting Surfaces.
Surfaces such as cutting blocks and boards that are subject to scratching and
scoring shall be resurfaced if they can no longer be effectively cleaned and
SANITIZED, or discarded if they are not capable of being resurfaced.
107

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 4. Equipment, Utensils, and Linens
4-501.13 Microwave Ovens.
Microwave ovens shall meet the safety standards specified in 21 CFR 1030.10
Microwave ovens.
4-501.14 Warewashing Equipment, Cleaning Frequency.
A WAREWASHING machine; the compartments of sinks, basins, or other
receptacles used for washing and rinsing EQUIPMENT, UTENSILS, or raw FOODS, or
laundering wiping cloths; and drainboards or other EQUIPMENT used to substitute
for drainboards as specified under § 4-301.13 shall be cleaned:
(A) Before use;
(B) Throughout the day at a frequency necessary to prevent
recontamination of EQUIPMENT and UTENSILS and to ensure that the
EQUIPMENT performs its intended function; and
(C) If used, at least every 24 hours.
4-501.15 Warewashing Machines, Manufacturers' Operating Instructions.
(A) A WAREWASHING machine and its auxiliary components shall be operated in
accordance with the machine's data plate and other manufacturer's
instructions.
(B) A WAREWASHING machine's conveyor speed or automatic cycle times shall be
maintained accurately timed in accordance with manufacturer's specifications.
4-501.16 Warewashing Sinks, Use Limitation.
(A) A WAREWASHING sink may not be used for handwashing as specified under
§ 2-301.15.
(B) If a WAREWASHING sink is used to wash wiping cloths, wash produce, or thaw
FOOD, the sink shall be cleaned as specified under § 4-501.14 before and
after each time it is used to wash wiping cloths or wash produce or thaw
FOOD. Sinks used to wash or thaw FOOD shall be SANITIZED as specified under
Part 4-7 before and after using the sink to wash produce or thaw FOOD.
4-501.17 Warewashing Equipment, Cleaning Agents.
When used for WAREWASHING, the wash compartment of a sink, mechanical
WAREWASHER, or wash receptacle of alternative manual WAREWASHING EQUIPMENT
as specified in ¶ 4-301.12(C), shall contain a wash solution of soap, detergent,
acid cleaner, alkaline cleaner, degreaser, abrasive cleaner, or other cleaning
agent according to the cleaning agent manufacturer's label instructions. Pf
4-501.18 Warewashing Equipment, Clean Solutions.
The wash, rinse, and SANITIZE solutions shall be maintained clean.
108

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 4. Equipment, Utensils, and Linens
4-501.19 Manual Warewashing Equipment, Wash Solution Temperature.
The temperature of the wash solution in manual WAREWASHING EQUIPMENT shall
be maintained at not less than 43°C (110°F) or the temperature specified on the
cleaning agent manufacturer's label instructions. Pf
4-501.110 Mechanical Warewashing Equipment, Wash Solution
Temperature.
(A) The temperature of the wash solution in spray-type WAREWASHERS that use
hot water to SANITIZE may not be less than:
(1) For a stationary rack, single temperature machine, 74°C (165°F); Pf
(2) For a stationary rack, dual temperature machine, 66°C (150°F); Pf
(3) For a single tank, conveyor, dual temperature machine, 71°C (160°F); Pf
or
(4) For a multi-tank, conveyor, multitemperature machine, 66°C (150°F). Pf
(B) The temperature of the wash solution in spray-type WAREWASHERS that use
chemicals to SANITIZE may not be less than 49°C (120°F). Pf
4-501.111 Manual Warewashing Equipment, Hot Water Sanitization
Temperatures.
If immersion in hot water is used for SANITIZING in a manual operation, the
temperature of the water shall be maintained at 77°C (171°F) or above. P
4-501.112 Mechanical Warewashing Equipment, Hot Water Sanitization
Temperatures.
(A) Except as specified in ¶ (B) of this section, in a mechanical operation, the
temperature of the fresh hot water SANITIZING rinse as it enters the manifold
may not be more than 90°C (194°F), or less than: Pf
(1) For a stationary rack, single temperature machine, 74°C (165°F); Pf or
(2) For all other machines, 82°C (180°F). Pf
(B) The maximum temperature specified under ¶ (A) of this section, does not
apply to the high pressure and temperature systems with wand-type, hand-
held, spraying devices used for the in-place cleaning and SANITIZING of
EQUIPMENT such as MEAT saws.
4-501.113 Mechanical Warewashing Equipment, Sanitization Pressure
The flow pressure of the fresh hot water SANITIZING rinse in a WAREWASHING
machine, as measured in the water line immediately downstream or upstream
from the fresh hot water SANITIZING rinse control value, shall be within the
range specified on the machine manufacturer’s data plate and may not be less
than 35 kilopascals (5 pounds per square inch) or more than 200 kilopascals
(30 pounds per square inch).
109

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 4. Equipment, Utensils, and Linens
4-501.114 Manual and Mechanical Warewashing Equipment, Chemical
Sanitization - Temperature, pH, Concentration, and Hardness.
A chemical SANITIZER used in a SANITIZING solution for a manual or mechanical
operation at contact times specified under ¶4-703.11(C) shall meet the criteria
specified under §7-204.11 Sanitizers, Criteria, shall be used in accordance with
the EPA-registered label use instructions, P and shall be used as follows:
(A) A chlorine solution shall have a minimum temperature based on the
concentration and PH of the solution as listed in the following chart; P
Minimum Minimum
Concentration
Temperature Temperature
Range
pH 10 or less pH 8 or less
(mg/L)
°C (°F) °C (°F)
25 – 49 49 (120) 49 (120)
50 – 99 38 (100) 24 (75)
100 13 (55) 13 (55)
(B) An iodine solution shall have a:
(1) Minimum temperature of 20° (68°F), P
(2) PH of 5.0 or less or a PH no higher than the level for which the
manufacturer specifies the solution is effective, P and
(3) Concentration between 12.5 MG/L and 25 MG/L; P
(C) A quaternary ammonium compound solution shall:
(1) Have a minimum temperature of 24°C (75°F), P
(2) Have a concentration as specified under § 7-204.11 and as
indicated by the manufacturer's use directions included in the
labeling, P and
(3) Be used only in water with 500 MG/L hardness or less or in
water having a hardness no greater than specified by the
EPA-registered label use instructions; P
(D) If another solution of a chemical specified under ¶¶ (A) - (C) of this
section is used, the PERMIT HOLDER shall demonstrate to the
REGULATORY AUTHORITY that the solution achieves SANITIZATION, and the
use of the solution shall be APPROVED; P
(E) If a chemical SANITIZER other than chlorine, iodine, or a quaternary
ammonium compound is used, it shall be applied in accordance with
the EPA-registered label use instructions; P and
(F) If a chemical SANITIZER is generated by a device located on-site at the
FOOD ESTABLISHMENT it shall be used as specified in ¶¶ (A) - (D) of this
section and shall be produced by a device that:
110

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 4. Equipment, Utensils, and Linens
(1) Complies with regulation as specified in §§ 2(q)(1) and 12 of the
Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA),P
(2) Complies with 40 CFR 152.500 Requirement for Devices and 40
CFR 156.10 Labeling Requirements, P
(3) Displays the EPA device manufacturing facility registration
number on the device, Pf and
(4) Is operated and maintained in accordance with manufacturer’s
instructions. Pf
4-501.115 Manual Warewashing Equipment, Chemical Sanitization Using
Detergent-Sanitizers.
If a detergent-SANITIZER is used to SANITIZE in a cleaning and SANITIZING
procedure where there is no distinct water rinse between the washing and
SANITIZING steps, the agent applied in the SANITIZING step shall be the same
detergent-SANITIZER that is used in the washing step.
4-501.116 Warewashing Equipment, Determining Chemical Sanitizer
Concentration.
Concentration of the SANITIZING solution shall be accurately determined by using
a test kit or other device. Pf
4-502 Utensils and Temperature and Pressure Measuring Devices
4-502.11 Good Repair and Calibration.
(A) UTENSILS shall be maintained in a state of repair or condition that complies
with the requirements specified under Parts 4-1 and 4-2 or shall be discarded.
(B) FOOD TEMPERATURE MEASURING DEVICES shall be calibrated in accordance with
manufacturer's specifications as necessary to ensure their accuracy. Pf
(C) Ambient air temperature, water pressure, and water TEMPERATURE MEASURING
DEVICES shall be maintained in good repair and be accurate within the
intended range of use.
4-502.12 Single-Service and Single-Use Articles, Required Use.
A FOOD ESTABLISHMENT without facilities specified under Parts 4-6 and 4-7 for
cleaning and SANITIZING KITCHENWARE and TABLEWARE shall provide only SINGLE-
USE KITCHENWARE, SINGLE-SERVICE ARTICLES, and SINGLE-USE ARTICLES for use by
FOOD EMPLOYEES and SINGLE-SERVICE ARTICLES for use by CONSUMERS. P
4-502.13 Single-Service and Single-Use Articles, Use Limitation.
(A) SINGLE-SERVICE and SINGLE-USE ARTICLES may not be reused.
(B) The bulk milk container dispensing tube shall be cut on the diagonal leaving
no more than one inch protruding from the chilled dispensing head.
111

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 4. Equipment, Utensils, and Linens
4-502.14 Shells, Use Limitation.
Mollusk and crustacea shells may not be used more than once as serving
containers.
4-6 Cleaning of Equipment and Utensils
Subparts:
4-601 Objective
4-602 Frequency
4-603 Methods
4-601 Objective
4-601.11 Equipment, Food-Contact Surfaces, Nonfood-Contact Surfaces,
and Utensils.
(A) EQUIPMENT FOOD-CONTACT SURFACES and UTENSILS shall be clean to sight and
touch. Pf
(B) The FOOD-CONTACT SURFACES of cooking EQUIPMENT and pans shall be kept
free of encrusted grease deposits and other soil accumulations.
(C) NonFOOD-CONTACT SURFACES of EQUIPMENT shall be kept free of an
accumulation of dust, dirt, FOOD residue, and other debris.
4-602 Frequency
4-602.11 Equipment Food-Contact Surfaces and Utensils.
(A) Equipment food-contact surfaces and utensils shall be cleaned:
(1) Except as specified in ¶ (B) of this section, before each use with a
different type of raw animal FOOD such as beef, FISH, lamb, pork, or
POULTRY; P
(2) Each time there is a change from working with raw FOODS to working
with READY-TO-EAT FOODS; P
(3) Between uses with raw fruits and vegetables and with
TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD; P
(4) Before using or storing a FOOD TEMPERATURE MEASURING DEVICE; P and
(5) At any time during the operation when contamination may have
occurred. P
(B) Subparagraph (A)(1) of this section does not apply if the FOOD-CONTACT
SURFACE or UTENSIL is in contact with a succession of different types of raw
MEAT and POULTRY each requiring a higher cooking temperature as specified
under § 3-401.11 than the previous type.
112

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 4. Equipment, Utensils, and Linens
(C) Except as specified in ¶ (D) of this section, if used with TIME/TEMPERATURE
CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD, EQUIPMENT FOOD-CONTACT SURFACES and UTENSILS
shall be cleaned throughout the day at least every 4 hours. P
(D) Surfaces of UTENSILS and EQUIPMENT contacting TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL
FOR SAFETY FOOD may be cleaned less frequently than every 4 hours if:
(1) In storage, containers of TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD
and their contents are maintained at temperatures specified under
Chapter 3 and the containers are cleaned when they are empty;
(2) UTENSILS and EQUIPMENT are used to prepare FOOD in a refrigerated
room or area that is maintained at one of the temperatures in the
following chart and:
(a) The utensils and equipment are cleaned at the frequency in the
following chart that corresponds to the temperature; and
Temperature Cleaning Frequency
5.0°C (41°F) or less 24 hours
>5.0°C - 7.2°C
20 hours
(>41°F - 45°F)
>7.2°C - 10.0°C
16 hours
(>45°F - 50°F)
>10.0°C - 12.8°C
10 hours
(>50°F - 55°F)
(b) The cleaning frequency based on the ambient temperature of
the refrigerated room or area is documented in the FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT.
(3) Containers in serving situations such as salad bars, delis, and cafeteria
lines hold READY-TO-EAT TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD
that is maintained at the temperatures specified under Chapter 3, are
intermittently combined with additional supplies of the same FOOD that
is at the required temperature, and the containers are cleaned at least
every 24 hours;
(4) TEMPERATURE MEASURING DEVICES are maintained in contact with FOOD,
such as when left in a container of deli FOOD or in a roast, held at
temperatures specified under Chapter 3;
(5) EQUIPMENT is used for storage of PACKAGED or unPACKAGED FOOD such
as a reach-in refrigerator and the EQUIPMENT is cleaned at a frequency
necessary to preclude accumulation of soil residues;
(6) The cleaning schedule is APPROVED based on consideration of:
113

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 4. Equipment, Utensils, and Linens
(a) Characteristics of the EQUIPMENT and its use,
(b) The type of FOOD involved,
(c) The amount of FOOD residue accumulation, and
(d) The temperature at which the FOOD is maintained during the
operation and the potential for the rapid and progressive
multiplication of pathogenic or toxigenic microorganisms that
can cause foodborne disease; or
(7) In-use UTENSILS are intermittently stored in a container of water in
which the water is maintained at 57°C (135°F) or more and the
UTENSILS and container are cleaned at least every 24 hours or at a
frequency necessary to preclude accumulation of soil residues.
(E) Except when dry cleaning methods are used as specified under § 4-603.11,
surfaces of UTENSILS and EQUIPMENT contacting FOOD that is not
TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD shall be cleaned:
(1) At any time when contamination may have occurred;
(2) At least every 24 hours for iced tea dispensers and CONSUMER self-
service UTENSILS such as tongs, scoops, or ladles;
(3) Before restocking CONSUMER self-service EQUIPMENT and UTENSILS such
as condiment dispensers and display containers; and
(4) In EQUIPMENT such as ice bins and BEVERAGE dispensing nozzles and
enclosed components of EQUIPMENT such as ice makers, cooking oil
storage tanks and distribution lines, BEVERAGE and syrup dispensing
lines or tubes, coffee bean grinders, and water vending EQUIPMENT:
(a) At a frequency specified by the manufacturer, or
(b) Absent manufacturer specifications, at a frequency necessary to
preclude accumulation of soil or mold.
4-602.12 Cooking and Baking Equipment.
(A) The FOOD-CONTACT SURFACES of cooking and baking EQUIPMENT shall be
cleaned at least every 24 hours. This section does not apply to hot oil cooking
and filtering EQUIPMENT if it is cleaned as specified in Subparagraph
4-602.11(D)(6).
(B) The cavities and door seals of microwave ovens shall be cleaned at least
every 24 hours by using the manufacturer's recommended cleaning
procedure.
4-602.13 Nonfood-Contact Surfaces.
NonFOOD-CONTACT SURFACES of EQUIPMENT shall be cleaned at a frequency
necessary to preclude accumulation of soil residues.
114

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 4. Equipment, Utensils, and Linens
4-603 Methods
4-603.11 Dry Cleaning.
(A) If used, dry cleaning methods such as brushing, scraping, and vacuuming
shall contact only surfaces that are soiled with dry FOOD residues that are not
TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD.
(B) Cleaning EQUIPMENT used in dry cleaning FOOD-CONTACT SURFACES may not
be used for any other purpose.
4-603.12 Precleaning.
(A) FOOD debris on EQUIPMENT and UTENSILS shall be scraped over a waste
disposal unit or garbage receptacle or shall be removed in a WAREWASHING
machine with a prewash cycle.
(B) If necessary for effective cleaning, UTENSILS and EQUIPMENT shall be pre-
flushed, presoaked, or scrubbed with abrasives.
4-603.13 Loading of Soiled Items, Warewashing Machines.
Soiled items to be cleaned in a WAREWASHING machine shall be loaded into racks,
trays, or baskets or onto conveyors in a position that:
(A) Exposes the items to the unobstructed spray from all cycles; and
(B) Allows the items to drain.
4-603.14 Wet Cleaning.
(A) EQUIPMENT FOOD-CONTACT SURFACES and UTENSILS shall be effectively washed
to remove or completely loosen soils by using the manual or mechanical
means necessary such as the application of detergents containing wetting
agents and emulsifiers; acid, alkaline, or abrasive cleaners; hot water;
brushes; scouring pads; high-pressure sprays; or ultrasonic devices.
(B) The washing procedures selected shall be based on the type and purpose of
the EQUIPMENT or UTENSIL, and on the type of soil to be removed.
4-603.15 Washing, Procedures for Alternative Manual Warewashing
Equipment.
If washing in sink compartments or a WAREWASHING machine is impractical such
as when the EQUIPMENT is fixed or the UTENSILS are too large, washing shall be
done by using alternative manual WAREWASHING EQUIPMENT as specified in ¶
4-301.12(C) in accordance with the following procedures:
(A) EQUIPMENT shall be disassembled as necessary to allow access of the
detergent solution to all parts;
(B) EQUIPMENT components and UTENSILS shall be scraped or rough
cleaned to remove FOOD particle accumulation; and
115

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 4. Equipment, Utensils, and Linens
(C) EQUIPMENT and UTENSILS shall be washed as specified under
¶ 4-603.14(A).
4-603.16 Rinsing Procedures.
Washed UTENSILS and EQUIPMENT shall be rinsed so that abrasives are removed,
and cleaning chemicals are removed or diluted by water or a detergent-sanitizer
solution by using one of the following procedures:
(A) Use of a distinct, separate water rinse after washing and before
SANITIZING if using:
(1) A 3-compartment sink,
(2) Alternative manual WAREWASHING EQUIPMENT equivalent to a
3-compartment sink as specified in ¶ 4-301.12(C), or
(3) A 3-step washing, rinsing, and SANITIZING procedure in a
WAREWASHING system for CIP EQUIPMENT;
(B) Use of a detergent-SANITIZER as specified under § 4-501.115 if using:
(1) Alternative WAREWASHING EQUIPMENT as specified in
¶ 4-301.12(C) that is APPROVED for use with a detergent-
sANITIZER, or
(2) A WAREWASHING system for CIP EQUIPMENT;
(C) Use of a nondistinct water rinse that is integrated in the hot water
SANITIZATION immersion step of a 2-compartment sink operation;
(D) If using a WAREWASHING machine that does not recycle the SANITIZING
solution as specified under ¶ (E) of this section, or alternative manual
WAREWASHING EQUIPMENT such as sprayers, use of a nondistinct water
rinse that is:
(1) Integrated in the application of the SANITIZING solution, and
(2) Wasted immediately after each application; or
(E) If using a WAREWASHING machine that recycles the SANITIZING solution
for use in the next wash cycle, use of a nondistinct water rinse that is
integrated in the application of the SANITIZING solution.
4-7 Sanitization of Equipment and Utensils
Subparts:
4-701 Objective
4-702 Frequency
4-703 Methods
116

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 4. Equipment, Utensils, and Linens
4-701 Objective
4-701.10 Food-Contact Surfaces and Utensils.
Equipment food-contact surfaces and utensils shall be sanitized.
4-702 Frequency
4-702.11 Before Use After Cleaning.
UTENSILS and FOOD-CONTACT SURFACES of EQUIPMENT shall be SANITIZED before
use after cleaning. P
4-703 Methods
4-703.11 Hot Water and Chemical.
After being cleaned, EQUIPMENT FOOD-CONTACT SURFACES and UTENSILS shall be
SANITIZED in:
(A) Hot water manual operations by immersion for at least 30 seconds and
as specified under § 4-501.111; P
(B) Hot water mechanical operations by being cycled through EQUIPMENT
that is set up as specified under §§ 4-501.15, 4-501.112, and
4-501.113 and achieving a UTENSIL surface temperature of 71°C
(160°F) as measured by an irreversible registering temperature
indicator; P or
(C) Chemical manual or mechanical operations, including the application
of SANITIZING chemicals by immersion, manual swabbing, brushing, or
pressure spraying methods, using a solution as specified under §
4-501.114. Contact times shall be consistent with those on EPA-
registered label use instructions by providing:
(1) Except as specified under Subparagraph (C)(2) of this section, a
contact time of at least 10 seconds for a chlorine solution
specified under ¶ 4-501.114(A), P
(2) A contact time of at least 7 seconds for a chlorine solution of 50
MG/L that has a PH of 10 or less and a temperature of at least
38°C (100°) or a PH of 8 or less and a temperature of at least
24°C (75°F), P
(3) A contact time of at least 30 seconds for other chemical
SANITIZING solutions, P or
(4) A contact time used in relationship with a combination of
temperature, concentration, and PH that, when evaluated for
efficacy, yields SANITIZATION as defined in ¶ 1-201.10(B). P
117

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 4. Equipment, Utensils, and Linens
4-8 Laundering
Subparts:
4-801 Objective
4-802 Frequency
4-803 Methods
4-801 Objective
4-801.11 Clean Linens.
Clean LINENS shall be free from FOOD residues and other soiling matter.
4-802 Frequency
4-802.11 Specifications.
(A) LINENS that do not come in direct contact with FOOD shall be laundered
between operations if they become wet, sticky, or visibly soiled.
(B) Cloth gloves used as specified in 3-304.15(D) shall be laundered before being
used with a different type of raw animal FOOD such as beef, FISH, lamb, pork
or POULTRY.
(C) LINENS that are used as specified under § 3-304.13 and cloth napkins shall be
laundered between each use.
(D) Wet wiping cloths shall be laundered daily.
(E) Dry wiping cloths shall be laundered as necessary to prevent contamination
of FOOD and clean serving UTENSILS.
4-803 Methods
4-803.11 Storage of Soiled Linens.
Soiled LINENS shall be kept in clean, nonabsorbent receptacles or clean,
washable laundry bags and stored and transported to prevent contamination of
FOOD, clean EQUIPMENT, clean UTENSILS, and SINGLE-SERVICE and SINGLE-USE
ARTICLES.
4-803.12 Mechanical Washing.
(A) Except as specified in ¶ (B) of this section, LINENS shall be mechanically
washed.
(B) In FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS in which only wiping cloths are laundered as
specified in ¶ 4-301.15(B), the wiping cloths may be laundered in a
mechanical washer, sink designated only for laundering wiping cloths, or a
118

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 4. Equipment, Utensils, and Linens
WAREWASHING or FOOD preparation sink that is cleaned as specified under §
4-501.14.
4-803.13 Use of Laundry Facilities.
(A) Except as specified in ¶ (B) of this section, laundry facilities on the PREMISES
of a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT shall be used only for the washing and drying of
items used in the operation of the establishment.
(B) Separate laundry facilities located on the PREMISES for the purpose of general
laundering such as for institutions providing boarding and lodging may also be
used for laundering FOOD ESTABLISHMENT items.
4-9 Protection of Clean Items
Subparts:
4-901 Drying
4-902 Lubricating and Reassembling
4-903 Storing
4-904 Preventing Contamination
4-901 Drying
4-901.11 Equipment and Utensils, Air-Drying Required.
After cleaning and SANITIZING, EQUIPMENT and UTENSILS:
(A) Shall be air-dried or used after adequate draining as specified in the
first paragraph of 40 CFR 180.940 Tolerance exemptions for active
and inert ingredients for use in antimicrobial formulations (FOOD-
CONTACT SURFACE SANITIZING solutions), before contact with FOOD; and
(B) May not be cloth dried except that UTENSILS that have been air-dried
may be polished with cloths that are maintained clean and dry.
4-901.12 Wiping Cloths, Air-Drying Locations.
Wiping cloths laundered in a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT that does not have a
mechanical clothes dryer as specified in ¶ 4-301.15(B) shall be air-dried in a
location and in a manner that prevents contamination of FOOD, EQUIPMENT,
UTENSILS, LINENS, and SINGLE-SERVICE and SINGLE-USE ARTICLES and the wiping
cloths. This section does not apply if wiping cloths are stored after laundering in a
SANITIZING solution as specified under § 4-501.114.
119

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 4. Equipment, Utensils, and Linens
4-902 Lubricating and Reassembling
4-902.11 Food-Contact Surfaces.
Lubricants as specified under § 7-205.11 shall be applied to FOOD-CONTACT
SURFACES that require lubrication in a manner that does not contaminate FOOD-
CONTACT SURFACES.
4-902.12 Equipment.
EQUIPMENT shall be reassembled so that FOOD-CONTACT SURFACES are not
contaminated.
4-903 Storing
4-903.11 Equipment, Utensils, Linens, and Single-Service and Single-Use
Articles.
(A) Except as specified in ¶ (D) of this section, cleaned EQUIPMENT and UTENSILS,
laundered LINENS, and SINGLE-SERVICE and SINGLE-USE ARTICLES shall be
stored:
1. In a clean, dry location;
2. Where they are not exposed to splash, dust, or other contamination;
and
3. At least 15 cm (6 inches) above the floor.
(B) Clean EQUIPMENT and UTENSILS shall be stored as specified under ¶ (A) of this
section and shall be stored:
1. In a self-draining position that allows air drying; and
2. Covered or inverted.
(C) SINGLE-SERVICE and SINGLE-USE ARTICLES shall be stored as specified under ¶
(A) of this section and shall be kept in the original protective PACKAGE or
stored by using other means that afford protection from contamination until
used.
(D) Items that are kept in closed PACKAGES may be stored less than 15 cm
(6 inches) above the floor on dollies, pallets, racks, and skids that are
designed as specified under § 4-204.122.
120

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 4. Equipment, Utensils, and Linens
4-903.12 Prohibitions.
(A) Except as specified in ¶ (B) of this section, cleaned and SANITIZED EQUIPMENT,
UTENSILS, laundered LINENS, and SINGLE-SERVICE and SINGLE-USE ARTICLES
may not be stored:
(1) In locker rooms;
(2) In toilet rooms; Pf
(3) In garbage rooms;
(4) In mechanical rooms;
(5) Under sewer lines that are not shielded to intercept potential drips;
(6) Under leaking water lines including leaking automatic fire sprinkler
heads or under lines on which water has condensed;
(7) Under open stairwells; or
(8) Under other sources of contamination.
(B) Laundered LINENS and SINGLE-SERVICE and SINGLE-USE ARTICLES that are
PACKAGED or in a facility such as a cabinet may be stored in a locker room.
4-904 Preventing Contamination
4-904.11 Kitchenware and Tableware.
(A) SINGLE-SERVICE and SINGLE-USE ARTICLES and cleaned and SANITIZED UTENSILS
shall be handled, displayed, and dispensed so that contamination of FOOD-
and lip-contact surfaces is prevented.
(B) Knives, forks, and spoons that are not prewrapped shall be presented so that
only the handles are touched by EMPLOYEES and by CONSUMERS if CONSUMER
self-service is provided.
(C) Except as specified under ¶ (B) of this section, SINGLE-SERVICE ARTICLES that
are intended for FOOD- or lip-contact shall be furnished for CONSUMER self-
service with the original individual wrapper intact or from an APPROVED
dispenser.
4-904.12 Soiled and Clean Tableware.
Soiled TABLEWARE shall be removed from CONSUMER eating and drinking areas
and handled so that clean TABLEWARE is not contaminated.
4-904.13 Preset Tableware.
(A) Except as specified in ¶ (B) of this section, TABLEWARE that is preset shall be
protected from contamination by being wrapped, covered or inverted.
121

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 4. Equipment, Utensils, and Linens
(B) Preset TABLEWARE may be exposed if:
(1) Unused settings are removed when a consumer is seated; or
(2) Settings not removed when a consumer is seated are cleaned and
SANITIZED before further use.
4-904.14 Rinsing Equipment and Utensils after Cleaning and Sanitizing.
After being cleaned and SANITIZED, EQUIPMENT and UTENSILS shall not be rinsed
before air drying or use unless:
(A) The rinse is applied directly from a potable water supply by a
WAREWASHING machine that is maintained and operated as specified under
Subparts 4-204 and 4-501; and
(B) The rinse is applied only after the EQUIPMENT and UTENSILS have been
SANITIZED by the application of hot water or by the application of a
chemical SANITIZER solution whose EPA-registered label use instructions
call for rinsing off the SANITIZER after it is applied in a commercial
WAREWASHING machine
122

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 5. Water, Plumbing, and Waste
Chapter 5. Water, Plumbing, and
Waste
Parts:
5-1 Water
5-2 Plumbing System
5-3 Mobile Water Tank and Mobile Food Establishment Water Tank
5-4 Sewage, Other Liquid Waste, and Rainwater
5-5 Refuse
5-1 Water
Subparts:
5-101 Source
5-102 Quality
5-103 Quantity and Availability
5-104 Distribution, Delivery, and Retention
5-101 Source
5-101.11 Approved System.
DRINKING WATER shall be obtained from an APPROVED source that is:
(A) A public water system; P or
(B) A nonPUBLIC WATER SYSTEM that is constructed, maintained, and
operated according to LAW. P
5-101.12 System Flushing and Disinfection.
A DRINKING WATER system shall be flushed and disinfected before being placed in
service after construction, repair, or modification and after an emergency, such
as a flood, that may introduce contaminants to the system. P
5-101.13 Bottled Drinking Water.
BOTTLED DRINKING WATER used or sold in a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT shall be obtained
from APPROVED sources in accordance with 21 CFR 129 - Processing and
Bottling of Bottled DRINKING WATER. P
123

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 5. Water, Plumbing, and Waste
5-102 Quality
5-102.11 Standards.
Except as specified under § 5-102.12:
(A) Water from a PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM shall meet 40 CFR 141 - National
Primary Drinking Water Regulations and state DRINKING WATER quality
standards; P and
(B) Water from a nonPUBLIC WATER SYSTEM shall meet state DRINKING
WATER quality standards. P
5-102.12 Nondrinking Water.
(A) A nonDRINKING WATER supply shall be used only if its use is APPROVED. P
(B) NonDRINKING WATER shall be used only for nonculinary purposes such as air
conditioning, nonFOOD EQUIPMENT cooling, and fire protection. P
5-102.13 Sampling.
Except when used as specified under § 5-102.12, water from a nonPUBLIC WATER
SYSTEM shall be sampled and tested at least annually and as required by state
water quality regulations. Pf
5-102.14 Sample Report.
The most recent sample report for the nonPUBLIC WATER SYSTEM shall be retained
on file in the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT or the report shall be maintained as specified
by state water quality regulations.
5-103 Quantity and Availability
5-103.11 Capacity.
(A) The water source and system shall be of sufficient capacity to meet the peak
water demands of the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. Pf
(B) Hot water generation and distribution systems shall be sufficient to meet the
peak hot water demands throughout the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. Pf
5-103.12 Pressure.
Water under pressure shall be provided to all fixtures, EQUIPMENT, and nonFOOD
EQUIPMENT that are required to use water except that water supplied as specified
under ¶¶ 5-104.12(A) and (B) to a TEMPORARY FOOD ESTABLISHMENT or in
response to a temporary interruption of a water supply need not be under
pressure. Pf
124

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 5. Water, Plumbing, and Waste
5-104 Distribution, Delivery, and Retention,
5-104.11 System.
Water shall be received from the source by:
(A) An APPROVED public water main; Pf or
(B) One or more of the following that shall be constructed, maintained, and
operated according to LAW: Pf
(1) Nonpublic water main, water pumps, pipes, hoses, connections,
and other appurtenances, Pf
(2) Water transport vehicles, Pf or
(3) Water containers. Pf
5-104.12 Alternative Water Supply.
Water meeting the requirements specified under Subparts 5-101, 5-102, and
5-103 shall be made available for a mobile facility, for a TEMPORARY FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT without a permanent water supply, and for a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT
with a temporary interruption of its water supply through:
(A) A supply of containers of commercially BOTTLED DRINKING WATER; Pf
(B) One or more closed portable water containers; Pf
(C) An enclosed vehicular water tank; Pf
(D) An on-PREMISES water storage tank; Pf or
(E) Piping, tubing, or hoses connected to an adjacent APPROVED source. Pf
5-2 Plumbing System
Subparts:
5-201 Materials
5-202 Design, Construction, and Installation.
5-203 Numbers and Capacities
5-204 Location and Placement
5-205 Operation and Maintenance
5-201 Materials
5-201.11 Approved.
(A) A PLUMBING SYSTEM and hoses conveying water shall be constructed and
repaired with APPROVED materials according to LAW. P
(B) A water filter shall be made of SAFE MATERIALS. P
125

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 5. Water, Plumbing, and Waste
5-202 Design, Construction, and Installation.
5-202.11 Approved System and Cleanable Fixtures.
(A) A PLUMBING SYSTEM shall be designed, constructed, and installed according to
LAW. P
(B) A plumbing fixture such as a HANDWASHING sink, toilet, or urinal shall be
EASILY CLEANABLE.
5-202.12 Handwashing Sink, Installation.
(A) A HANDWASHING SINK shall be equipped to provide water at a temperature of at
least 29.4°C (85°F) through a mixing valve or combination faucet Pf
(B) A steam, mixing valve may not be used at a HANDWASHING SINK.
(C) A self-closing, slow-closing, or metering faucet shall provide a flow of water
for at least 15 seconds without the need to reactivate the faucet.
(D) An automatic handwashing facility shall be installed in accordance with
manufacturer’s instructions.
5-202.13 Backflow Prevention, Air Gap.
An air gap between the water supply inlet and the flood level rim of the PLUMBING
FIXTURE, EQUIPMENT, or nonFOOD EQUIPMENT shall be at least twice the diameter
of the water supply inlet and may not be less than 25 mm (1 inch). P
5-202.14 Backflow Prevention Device, Design Standard.
A backflow or backsiphonage prevention device installed on a water supply
system shall meet American Society of Sanitary Engineering (A.S.S.E.)
standards for construction, installation, maintenance, inspection, and testing for
that specific application and type of device. P
5-202.15 Conditioning Device, Design.
A water filter, screen, and other water conditioning device installed on water lines
shall be designed to facilitate disassembly for periodic servicing and cleaning. A
water filter element shall be of the replaceable type.
5-203 Numbers and Capacities
5-203.11 Handwashing Sinks.
(A) Except as specified in ¶¶ (B) of this section, at least 1 HANDWASHING SINK,
several HANDWASHING SINKS necessary for their convenient use by EMPLOYEES
in areas specified under § 5-204.11, and not fewer than the number of
HANDWASHING SINKS required by LAW shall be provided. Pf
126

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 5. Water, Plumbing, and Waste
(B) If APPROVED and capable of removing the types of soils encountered in the
FOOD operations involved, automatic handwashing facilities may be
substituted for HANDWASHING SINKS in a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT that has at least
1 HANDWASHING SINK.
5-203.12 Toilets and Urinals.
At least 1 toilet and not fewer than the toilets required by LAW shall be provided. If
authorized by LAW and urinals are substituted for toilets, the substitution shall be
done as specified in LAW.
5-203.13 Service Sink.
(A) At least 1 service sink or 1 curbed cleaning facility equipped with a floor drain
shall be provided and conveniently located for the cleaning of mops or similar
wet floor cleaning tools and for the disposal of mop water and similar liquid
waste.
(B) Toilets and urinals may not be used as a service sink for the disposal of mop
water and similar liquid waste.
5-203.14 Backflow Prevention Device, When Required.
A PLUMBING SYSTEM shall be installed to preclude backflow of a solid, liquid, or
gas contaminant into the water supply system at each point of use at the FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT, including on a hose bibb if a hose is attached or on a hose bibb if
a hose is not attached and backflow prevention is required by LAW, by:
(A) Providing an air gap as specified under § 5-202.13 P; or
(B) Installing an APPROVED backflow prevention device as specified under
§ 5-202.14. P
5-203.15 Backflow Prevention Device, Carbonator.
(A) If not provided with an air gap as specified under §5-202.13, a dual check valve
with an intermediate vent preceded by a screen of not less than 100 mesh to
25.4 mm (100 mesh to 1 inch) shall be installed upstream from a carbonating
device and downstream from any copper in the water supply line. P
(B) A dual check valve attached to the carbonator need not be of the vented type
if an air gap or vented backflow prevention device has been otherwise
provided as specified under ¶ (A) of this section.
127

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 5. Water, Plumbing, and Waste
5-204 Location and Placement
5-204.11 Handwashing Sinks.
A HANDWASHING SINK shall be located:
(A) To allow convenient use by EMPLOYEES in FOOD preparation, FOOD
dispensing, and WAREWASHING areas; Pf and
(B) In, or immediately adjacent to, toilet rooms. Pf
5-204.12 Backflow Prevention Device, Location.
A backflow prevention device shall be located so that it may be serviced and
maintained.
5-204.13 Conditioning Device, Location.
A water filter, screen, and other water conditioning device installed on water lines
shall be located to facilitate disassembly for periodic servicing and cleaning.
5-205 Operation and Maintenance
5-205.11 Using a Handwashing Sink.
(A) A HANDWASHING SINK shall be maintained so that it is always accessible for
EMPLOYEE use. Pf
(B) A HANDWASHING SINK may not be used for purposes other than handwashing. Pf
(C) An automatic handwashing facility shall be used in accordance with
manufacturer’s instructions. Pf
5-205.12 Prohibiting a Cross Connection.
(A) A PERSON may not create a cross connection by connecting a pipe or conduit
between the DRINKING WATER system and a nonDRINKING WATER system or a
water system of unknown quality. P
(B) The piping of a nonDRINKING WATER system shall be durably identified so that
it is readily distinguishable from piping that carries DRINKING WATER. Pf
5-205.13 Scheduling Inspection and Service for a Water System Device.
A device such as a water treatment device or backflow preventer shall be
scheduled for inspection and service, in accordance with manufacturer's
instructions and as necessary to prevent device failure based on local water
conditions, and records demonstrating inspection and service shall be
maintained by the PERSON IN CHARGE. Pf
128

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 5. Water, Plumbing, and Waste
5-205.14 Water Reservoir of Fogging Devices, Cleaning.
(A) A reservoir that is used to supply water to a device such as a produce fogger
shall be:
(1) Maintained in accordance with manufacturer's specifications; P and
(2) Cleaned in accordance with manufacturer's specifications or according
to the procedures specified under ¶ (B) of this section, whichever is
more stringent. P
(B) Cleaning procedures shall include at least the following steps and shall be
conducted at least once a week:
(1) Draining and complete disassembly of the water and aerosol contact
parts; P
(2) Brush-cleaning the reservoir, aerosol tubing, and discharge nozzles
with a suitable detergent solution; P
(3) Flushing the complete system with water to remove the detergent
solution and particulate accumulation; P and
(4) Rinsing by immersing, spraying, or swabbing the reservoir, aerosol
tubing, and discharge nozzles with at least 50 MG/L hypochlorite
solution. P
5-205.15 System Maintained in Good Repair.
A plumbing system shall be:
(A) Repaired according to LAW; P and
(B) Maintained in good repair.
5-3 Mobile Water Tank and Mobile Food Establishment Water Tank
Subparts:
5-301 Materials
5-302 Design and Construction
5-303 Numbers and Capacities
5-304 Operation and Maintenance
129

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 5. Water, Plumbing, and Waste
5-301 Materials
5-301.11 Approved.
Materials that are used in the construction of a mobile water tank, mobile FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT water tank, and appurtenances shall be:
(A) Safe; P
(B) Durable, CORROSION-RESISTANT, and nonabsorbent; and
(C) Finished to have a SMOOTH, EASILY CLEANABLE surface.
5-302 Design and Construction
5-302.11 Enclosed System, Sloped to Drain.
A mobile water tank shall be:
(A) Enclosed from the filling inlet to the discharge outlet; and
(B) Sloped to an outlet that allows complete drainage of the tank.
5-302.12 Inspection and Cleaning Port, Protected and Secured.
If a water tank is designed with an access port for inspection and cleaning, the
opening shall be in the top of the tank and:
(A) Flanged upward at least 13 mm (one-half inch); and
(B) Equipped with a port cover assembly that is:
(1) Provided with a gasket and a device for securing the cover in
place, and
(2) Flanged to overlap the opening and sloped to drain.
5-302.13 "V" Type Threads, Use Limitation.
A fitting with "V" type threads on a water tank inlet or outlet shall be allowed only
when a hose is permanently attached.
5-302.14 Tank Vent, Protected.
If provided, a water tank vent shall terminate in a downward direction and shall
be covered with:
(A) 16 mesh to 25.4 mm (16 mesh to 1 inch) screen or equivalent when
the vent is in a protected area; or
(B) A protective filter when the vent is in an area that is not protected from
windblown dirt and debris.
130

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 5. Water, Plumbing, and Waste
5-302.15 Inlet and Outlet, Sloped to Drain.
(A) A water tank and its inlet and outlet shall be sloped to drain.
(B) A water tank inlet shall be positioned so that it is protected from contaminants
such as waste discharge, road dust, oil, or grease.
5-302.16 Hose, Construction, and Identification.
A hose used for conveying DRINKING WATER from a water tank shall be:
(A) Safe; P
(B) Durable, CORROSION-RESISTANT, and nonabsorbent;
(C) Resistant to pitting, chipping, crazing, scratching, scoring, distortion,
and decomposition;
(D) Finished with a SMOOTH interior surface; and
(E) Clearly and durably identified as to its use if not permanently attached.
5-303 Numbers and Capacities
5-303.11 Filter, Compressed Air.
A filter that does not pass oil or oil vapors shall be installed in the air supply line
between the compressor and DRINKING WATER system when compressed air is
used to pressurize the water tank system. P
5-303.12 Protective Cover or Device.
A cap and keeper chain, closed cabinet, closed storage tube, or other APPROVED
protective cover or device shall be provided for a water inlet, outlet, and hose.
5-303.13 Mobile Food Establishment Tank Inlet.
A mobile FOOD ESTABLISHMENT'S water tank inlet shall be:
(A) 19.1 mm (three-fourths inch) in inner diameter or less; and
(B) Provided with a hose connection of a size or type that will prevent its
use for any other service.
5-304 Operation and Maintenance
5-304.11 System Flushing and Sanitization.
A water tank, pump, and hoses shall be flushed and SANITIZED before being
placed in service after construction, repair, modification, and periods of nonuse. P
5-304.12 Using a Pump and Hoses, Backflow Prevention.
A PERSON shall operate a water tank, pump, and hoses so that backflow and
other contamination of the water supply are prevented.
131

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 5. Water, Plumbing, and Waste
5-304.13 Protecting Inlet, Outlet, and Hose Fitting.
If not in use, a water tank and hose inlet and outlet fitting shall be protected using
a cover or device as specified under § 5-303.12.
5-304.14 Tank, Pump, and Hoses, Dedication.
(A) Except as specified in ¶ (B) of this section, a water tank, pump, and hoses
used for conveying DRINKING WATER shall be used for no other purpose. P
(B) Water tanks, pumps, and hoses APPROVED for liquid FOODS may be used for
conveying DRINKING WATER if they are cleaned and SANITIZED before they are
used to convey water.
5-4 Sewage, Other Liquid Waste, and Rainwater
Subparts:
5-401 Mobile Holding Tank
5-402 Retention, Drainage, and Delivery
5-403 Disposal Facility
5-401 Mobile Holding Tank
5-401.11 Capacity and Drainage.
A SEWAGE holding tank in a mobile FOOD ESTABLISHMENT shall be:
(A) Sized 15 percent larger in capacity than the water supply tank; and
(B) Sloped to a drain that is 25 mm (1 inch) in inner diameter or greater,
equipped with a shut-off valve.
5-402 Retention, Drainage, and Delivery
Design, construction, and installation
5-402.10 Establishment Drainage System.
FOOD ESTABLISHMENT drainage systems, including grease traps, that convey
SEWAGE shall be designed and installed as specified under ¶ 5-202.11(A).
5-402.11 Backflow Prevention.
(A) Except as specified in ¶¶ (B), (C), and (D) of this section, a direct connection
may not exist between the SEWAGE system and a drain originating from
EQUIPMENT in which FOOD, portable EQUIPMENT, or UTENSILS are placed. P
(B) Paragraph (A) of this section does not apply to floor drains that originate in
refrigerated spaces that are constructed as an integral part of the building.
132

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 5. Water, Plumbing, and Waste
(C) If allowed by LAW, a WAREWASHING machine may have a direct connection
between its waste outlet and a floor drain when the machine is located within
1.5 m (5 feet) of a trapped floor drain and the machine outlet is connected to
the inlet side of a properly vented floor drain trap.
(D) If allowed by LAW, a WAREWASHING or culinary sink may have a direct
connection.
Location and placement
5-402.12 Grease Trap.
If used, a grease trap shall be located to be easily accessible for cleaning.
Operation and maintenance
5-402.13 Conveying Sewage.
SEWAGE shall be conveyed to the point of disposal through an APPROVED sanitary
SEWAGE system or other system, including use of SEWAGE transport vehicles,
waste retention tanks, pumps, pipes, hoses, and connections that are
constructed, maintained, and operated according to LAW. P
5-402.14 Removing Mobile Food Establishment Wastes.
SEWAGE and other liquid wastes shall be removed from a mobile FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT at an APPROVED waste SERVICING AREA or by a SEWAGE transport
vehicle in such a way that a public health HAZARD or nuisance is not created. Pf
5-402.15 Flushing a Waste Retention Tank.
A tank for liquid waste retention shall be thoroughly flushed and drained in a
sanitary manner during the servicing operation.
5-403 Disposal Facility
Design and construction
5-403.11 Approved Sewage Disposal System.
SEWAGE shall be disposed through an APPROVED facility that is:
(A) A public SEWAGE treatment plant; P or
(B) An individual SEWAGE disposal system that is sized, constructed,
maintained, and operated according to LAW. P
5-403.12 Other Liquid Wastes and Rainwater.
Condensate drainage and other nonSEWAGE liquids and rainwater shall be
drained from point of discharge to disposal according to LAW.
133

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 5. Water, Plumbing, and Waste
5-5 Refuse, Recyclables, and Returnables
Subparts:
5-501 Facilities on the Premises
5-502 Removal
5-503 Facilities for Disposal and Recycling
5-501 Facilities on the Premises
Materials, design, construction, and installation
5-501.10 Indoor Storage Area.
If located within the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT, a storage area for REFUSE, recyclables,
and returnables shall meet the requirements specified under §§ 6-101.11,
6-201.11 - 6-201.18, 6-202.15, and 6-202.16.
5-501.11 Outdoor Storage Surface.
An outdoor storage surface for REFUSE, recyclables, and returnables shall be
constructed of nonabsorbent material such as concrete or asphalt and shall be
SMOOTH, durable, and sloped to drain.
5-501.12 Outdoor Enclosure.
If used, an outdoor enclosure for REFUSE, recyclables, and returnables shall be
constructed of durable and cleanable materials.
5-501.13 Receptacles.
(A) Except as specified in ¶ (B) of this section, receptacles and waste handling
units for REFUSE, recyclables, and returnables and for use with materials
containing FOOD residue shall be durable, cleanable, insect- and rodent-
resistant, leakproof, and nonabsorbent.
(B) Plastic bags and wet strength paper bags may be used to line receptacles for
storage inside the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT, or within closed outside receptacles.
5-501.14 Receptacles in Vending Machines.
Except for a receptacle for BEVERAGE bottle crown closures, a REFUSE receptacle
may not be located within a VENDING MACHINE.
5-501.15 Outside Receptacles.
(A) Receptacles and waste handling units for REFUSE, recyclables, and
returnables used with materials containing FOOD residue and used outside the
FOOD ESTABLISHMENT shall be designed and constructed to have tight-fitting
lids, doors, or covers.
134

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 5. Water, Plumbing, and Waste
(B) Receptacles and waste handling units for REFUSE and recyclables such as an
on-site compactor shall be installed so that accumulation of debris and insect
and rodent attraction and harborage are minimized and effective cleaning is
facilitated around and, if the unit is not installed flush with the base pad, under
the unit.
Numbers and capacities
5-501.16 Storage Areas, Rooms, and Receptacles, Capacity and
Availability.
(A) An inside storage room and area and outside storage area and enclosure,
and receptacles shall be of sufficient capacity to hold REFUSE, recyclables,
and returnables that accumulate.
(B) A receptacle shall be provided in each area of the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT or
PREMISES where REFUSE is generated or commonly discarded, or where
recyclables or returnables are placed.
(C) If disposable towels are used at handwashing lavatories, a waste receptacle
shall be located at each lavatory or group of adjacent lavatories.
5-501.17 Toilet Room Receptacle, Covered.
A toilet room used by females shall be provided with a covered receptacle for
sanitary napkins.
5-501.18 Cleaning Implements and Supplies.
(A) Except as specified in ¶ (B) of this section, suitable cleaning implements and
supplies such as high-pressure pumps, hot water, steam, and detergent shall
be provided as necessary for effective cleaning of receptacles and waste
handling units for REFUSE, recyclables, and returnables.
(B) If APPROVED, off-PREMISES-based cleaning services may be used if on-
PREMISES cleaning implements and supplies are not provided.
Location and placement
5-501.19 Storage Areas, Redeeming Machines, Receptacles and Waste
Handling Units, Location.
(A) An area designated for REFUSE, recyclables, returnables, and, except as
specified in ¶ (B) of this section, a redeeming machine for recyclables or
returnables shall be located so that it is separate from FOOD, EQUIPMENT,
UTENSILS, LINENS, and SINGLE-SERVICE and SINGLE-USE ARTICLES and a public
health HAZARD or nuisance is not created.
(B) A redeeming machine may be in the PACKAGED FOOD storage area or
CONSUMER area of a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT if FOOD, EQUIPMENT, UTENSILS,
LINENS, and SINGLE-SERVICE and SINGLE-USE ARTICLES are not subject to
135

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 5. Water, Plumbing, and Waste
contamination from the machines and a public health HAZARD or nuisance is
not created.
(C) The location of receptacles and waste handling units for REFUSE, recyclables,
and returnables may not create a public health HAZARD or nuisance or
interfere with the cleaning of adjacent space.
Operation and maintenance
5-501.110 Storing Refuse, Recyclables, and Returnables.
REFUSE, recyclables, and returnables shall be stored in receptacles or waste
handling units so that they are inaccessible to insects and rodents.
5-501.111 Areas, Enclosures, and Receptacles, Good Repair.
Storage areas, enclosures, and receptacles for REFUSE, recyclables, and
returnables shall be maintained in good repair.
5-501.112 Outside Storage Prohibitions.
(A) Except as specified in ¶ (B) of this section, REFUSE receptacles not meeting
the requirements specified under ¶ 5-501.13(A) such as receptacles that are
not rodent-resistant, unprotected plastic bags and paper bags, or baled units
that contain materials with FOOD residue may not be stored outside.
(B) Cardboard or other packaging material that does not contain FOOD residues
and that is awaiting regularly scheduled delivery to a recycling or disposal site
may be stored outside without being in a covered receptacle if it is stored so
that it does not create a rodent harborage problem.
5-501.113 Covering Receptacles.
Receptacles and waste handling units for REFUSE, recyclables, and returnables
shall be kept covered:
(A) Inside the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT if the receptacles and units:
(1) Contain FOOD residue and are not in continuous use; or
(2) After they are filled; and
(B) With tight-fitting lids or doors if kept outside the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT.
5-501.114 Using Drain Plugs.
Drains in receptacles and waste handling units for REFUSE, recyclables, and
returnables shall have drain plugs in place.
136

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 5. Water, Plumbing, and Waste
5-501.115 Maintaining Refuse Areas and Enclosures.
A storage area and enclosure for REFUSE, recyclables, or returnables shall be
maintained free of unnecessary items, as specified under § 6-501.114, and
clean.
5-501.116 Cleaning Receptacles.
(A) Receptacles and waste handling units for REFUSE, recyclables, and
returnables shall be thoroughly cleaned in a way that does not contaminate
FOOD, EQUIPMENT, UTENSILS, LINENS, or SINGLE-SERVICE and SINGLE-USE
ARTICLES, and wastewater shall be disposed of as specified under
§ 5-402.13.
(B) Soiled receptacles and waste handling units for REFUSE, recyclables, and
returnables shall be cleaned at a frequency necessary to prevent them from
developing a buildup of soil or becoming attractants for insects and rodents.
5-502 Removal
5-502.11 Frequency.
REFUSE, recyclables, and returnables shall be removed from the PREMISES at a
frequency that will minimize the development of objectionable odors and other
conditions that attract or harbor insects and rodents.
5-502.12 Receptacles or Vehicles.
REFUSE, recyclables, and returnables shall be removed from the PREMISES by
way of:
(A) Portable receptacles that are constructed and maintained according to
LAW; or
(B) A transport vehicle that is constructed, maintained, and operated
according to LAW.
5-503 Facilities for Disposal and Recycling
5-503.11 Community or Individual Facility.
Solid waste not disposed of through the SEWAGE system such as through grinders
and pulpers shall be recycled or disposed of in an APPROVED public or private
community recycling or REFUSE facility; or solid waste shall be disposed of in an
individual REFUSE facility such as a landfill or incinerator which is sized,
constructed, maintained, and operated according to LAW.
137

This page is intentionally left blank.
138

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 6. Physical Facilities
Chapter 6. Physical Facilities
Parts:
6-1 Materials for Construction and Repair
6-2 Design, Construction, and Installation
6-3 Numbers and Capacities
6-4 Location and Placement
6-5 Maintenance and Operation
6-1 Materials for Construction and Repair
Subparts:
6-101 Indoor Areas
6-102 Outdoor Areas
6-101 Indoor Areas
6-101.11 Surface Characteristics.
(A) Except as specified in ¶ (B) of this section, materials for indoor floor, wall, and
ceiling surfaces under conditions of normal use shall be:
(1) SMOOTH, durable, and EASILY CLEANABLE for areas where FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT operations are conducted;
(2) Closely woven and EASILY CLEANABLE carpet for carpeted areas; and
(3) Nonabsorbent for areas subject to moisture such as FOOD preparation
areas, walk-in refrigerators, WAREWASHING areas, toilet rooms, mobile
FOOD ESTABLISHMENT SERVICING AREAS, and areas subject to flushing or
spray cleaning methods.
(B) In a temporary FOOD ESTABLISHMENT:
(1) If graded to drain, a floor may be concrete, machine-laid asphalt, or dirt
or gravel if it is covered with mats, removable platforms, duckboards,
or other APPROVED materials that are effectively treated to control dust
and mud; and
(2) Walls and ceilings may be constructed of a material that protects the
interior from the weather and windblown dust and debris.
139

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 6. Physical Facilities
6-102 Outdoor Areas
6-102.11 Surface Characteristics.
(A) The outdoor walking and driving areas shall be surfaced with concrete,
asphalt, or gravel or other materials that have been effectively treated to
minimize dust, facilitate maintenance, and prevent muddy conditions.
(B) Exterior surfaces of buildings and mobile FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS shall be of
weather-resistant materials and shall comply with LAW.
(C) Outdoor storage areas for REFUSE, recyclables, or returnables shall be of
materials specified under §§ 5-501.11 and 5-501.12.
6-2 Design, Construction, and Installation
Subparts:
6-201 Cleanability
6-202 Functionality
6-201 Cleanability
6-201.11 Floors, Walls, and Ceilings.
Except as specified under §6-201.14 and except for anti-slip floor coverings or
applications that may be used for safety reasons, floors, floor coverings, walls,
wall coverings, and ceilings shall be designed, constructed, and installed so they
are SMOOTH and EASILY CLEANABLE.
6-201.12 Floors, Walls, and Ceilings, Utility Lines.
(A) Utility service lines and pipes may not be unnecessarily exposed.
(B) Exposed utility service lines and pipes shall be installed so they do not
obstruct or prevent cleaning of the floors, walls, or ceilings.
(C) Exposed horizontal utility service lines and pipes may not be installed on the
floor.
6-201.13 Floor and Wall Junctures, Coved, and Enclosed or Sealed.
(A) In FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS in which cleaning methods other than water flushing
are used for cleaning floors, the floor and wall junctures shall be coved and
closed to no larger than 1 mm (one thirty-second inch).
(B) The floors in FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS in which water flush cleaning methods are
used shall be provided with drains and be graded to drain, and the floor and
wall junctures shall be coved and SEALED.
140

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 6. Physical Facilities
6-201.14 Floor Carpeting, Restrictions, and Installation.
(A) A floor covering such as carpeting or similar material may not be installed as
a floor covering in FOOD preparation areas, walk-in refrigerators,
WAREWASHING areas, toilet room areas where handwashing lavatories, toilets,
and urinals are located, REFUSE storage rooms, or other areas where the floor
is subject to moisture, flushing, or spray cleaning methods.
(B) If carpeting is installed as a floor covering in areas other than those specified
under ¶ (A) of this section, it shall be:
(1) Securely attached to the floor with a durable mastic, by using a stretch
and tack method, or by another method; and
(2) Installed tightly against the wall under the coving or installed away from
the wall with a space between the carpet and the wall and with the
edges of the carpet secured by metal stripping or some other means.
6-201.15 Floor Covering, Mats, and Duckboards.
Mats and duckboards shall be designed to be removable and EASILY CLEANABLE.
6-201.16 Wall and Ceiling Coverings and Coatings.
(A) Wall and ceiling covering materials shall be attached so that they are EASILY
CLEANABLE.
(B) Except in areas used only for dry storage, concrete, porous blocks, or bricks
used for indoor wall construction shall be finished and SEALED to provide a
SMOOTH, nonabsorbent, EASILY CLEANABLE surface.
6-201.17 Walls and Ceilings, Attachments.
(A) Except as specified in ¶ (B) of this section, attachments to walls and ceilings
such as light fixtures, mechanical room ventilation system components, vent
covers, wall mounted fans, decorative items, and other attachments shall be
EASILY CLEANABLE.
(B) In a CONSUMER area, wall and ceiling surfaces and decorative items and
attachments that are provided for ambiance need not meet this requirement if
they are kept clean.
6-201.18 Walls and Ceilings, Studs, Joists, and Rafters.
Except for TEMPORARY FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS, studs, joists, and rafters may not
be exposed in areas subject to moisture.
141

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 6. Physical Facilities
6-202 Functionality
6-202.11 Light Bulbs, Protective Shielding.
(A) Except as specified in ¶ (B) of this section, light bulbs shall be shielded,
coated, or otherwise shatter-resistant in areas where there is exposed FOOD;
clean EQUIPMENT, UTENSILS, and LINENS; or unwrapped SINGLE-SERVICE and
SINGLE-USE ARTICLES.
(B) Shielded, coated, or otherwise shatter-resistant bulbs need not be used in
areas used only for storing FOOD in unopened PACKAGES, if:
(1) The integrity of the PACKAGES cannot be affected by broken glass
falling onto them; and
(2) The PACKAGES are capable of being cleaned of debris from broken
bulbs before the PACKAGES are opened.
(C) An infrared or other heat lamp shall be protected against breakage by a shield
surrounding and extending beyond the bulb so that only the face of the bulb is
exposed.
6-202.12 Heating, Ventilating, Air Conditioning System Vents.
Heating, ventilating, and air conditioning systems shall be designed and installed
so that make-up air intake and exhaust vents do not cause contamination of
FOOD, FOOD-CONTACT SURFACES, EQUIPMENT, or UTENSILS.
6-202.13 Insect Control Devices, Design, and Installation.
(A) Insect control devices that are used to electrocute or stun flying insects shall
be designed to retain the insect within the device.
(B) Insect control devices shall be installed so that:
(1) The devices are not located over a FOOD preparation area; and
(2) Dead insects and insect fragments are prevented from being impelled
onto or falling on exposed FOOD; clean EQUIPMENT, UTENSILS, and
LINENS; and unwrapped SINGLE-SERVICE and SINGLE-USE ARTICLES.
6-202.14 Toilet Rooms, Enclosed.
Except where a toilet room is located outside a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT and does
not open directly into the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT such as a toilet room that is
provided by the management of a shopping mall, a toilet room located on the
PREMISES shall be completely enclosed and provided with a tight-fitting and self-
closing door.
142

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 6. Physical Facilities
6-202.15 Outer Openings, Protected.
(A) Except as specified in ¶¶ (B), (C), and (E) and under ¶ (D) of this section,
outer openings of a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT shall be protected against the entry
of insects and rodents by:
(1) Filling or closing holes and other gaps along floors, walls, and ceilings;
(2) Closed, tight-fitting windows; and
(3) Solid, self-closing, tight-fitting doors.
(B) Paragraph (A) of this section does not apply if a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT opens
into a larger structure, such as a mall, airport, or office building, or into an
attached structure, such as a porch, and the outer openings from the larger or
attached structure are protected against the entry of insects and rodents.
(C) Exterior doors used as exits need not be self-closing if they are:
(1) Solid and tight-fitting;
(2) Designated for use only when an emergency exists, by the fire
protection authority that has jurisdiction over the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT;
and
(3) Limited-use so they are not used for entrance or exit from the building
for purposes other than the designated emergency exit use.
(D) Except as specified in ¶¶ (B) and (E) of this section, if the windows or doors of
a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT, or of a larger structure within which a FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT is located, are kept open for ventilation or other purposes or a
TEMPORARY FOOD ESTABLISHMENT is not provided with windows and doors as
specified under ¶ (A) of this section, the openings shall be protected against
the entry of insects and rodents and rodents by:
(1) 16 mesh to 25.4 mm (16 mesh to 1 inch) screens;
(2) Properly designed and installed air curtains to control flying insects; or
(3) Other effective means.
(E) Paragraph (D) of this section does not apply if flying insects and other pests
are absent due to the location of the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT, the weather, or
other limiting condition.
6-202.16 Exterior Walls and Roofs, Protective Barrier.
Perimeter walls and roofs of a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT shall effectively protect the
FOOD ESTABLISHMENT from the weather and the entry of insects, rodents, and
other animals.
6-202.17 Outdoor Food Vending Areas, Overhead Protection.
Except for machines that vend canned BEVERAGES, if located outside, a machine
used to vend FOOD shall be provided with overhead protection.
143

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 6. Physical Facilities
6-202.18 Outdoor Servicing Areas, Overhead Protection.
Except for areas used only for the loading of water or the discharge of sewage
and other liquid waste by a closed system of hoses, SERVICING AREAS shall be
provided with overhead protection.
6-202.19 Outdoor Walking and Driving Surfaces, Graded to Drain.
Exterior walking and driving surfaces shall be graded to drain.
6-202.110 Outdoor Refuse Areas, Curbed and Graded to Drain.
Outdoor REFUSE areas shall be constructed in accordance with LAW and shall be
curbed and graded to drain to collect and dispose of liquid waste that results from
the REFUSE and from cleaning the area and waste receptacles.
6-202.111 Private Homes and Living or Sleeping Quarters, Use Prohibition.
A private home, a room used as living or sleeping quarters, or an area directly
opening into a room used as living or sleeping quarters may not be used for
conducting FOOD ESTABLISHMENT operations. P
6-202.112 Living or Sleeping Quarters, Separation.
Living or sleeping quarters located on the PREMISES of a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT
such as those provided for lodging registration clerks or resident managers shall
be separated from rooms and areas used for FOOD ESTABLISHMENT operations by
complete partitioning and solid self-closing doors.
6-3 Numbers and Capacities
Subparts:
6-301 Handwashing Sinks
6-302 Toilets and Urinals
6-303 Lighting
6-304 Ventilation
6-305 Dressing Areas and Lockers
6-306 Service Sinks
6-301 Handwashing Sinks
6-301.10 Minimum Number.
HANDWASHING SINKS shall be provided as specified under § 5-203.11.
6-301.11 Handwashing Cleanser, Availability.
Each HANDWASHING SINK or group of 2 adjacent HANDWASHING SINKS shall be
provided with a supply of hand cleaning liquid, powder, or bar soap. Pf
144

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 6. Physical Facilities
6-301.12 Hand Drying Provision.
Each HANDWASHING SINK or group of adjacent HANDWASHING SINKS shall be
provided with:
(A) Individual, disposable towels; Pf
(B) A continuous towel system that supplies the user with a clean towel; Pf
(C) A heated-air hand drying device; Pf or
(D) A hand drying device that employs an air-knife system that delivers
high velocity, pressurized air at ambient temperatures. Pf
6-301.13 Handwashing Aids and Devices, Use Restrictions.
A sink used for FOOD preparation or UTENSIL washing, or a service sink or curbed
cleaning facility used for the disposal of mop water or similar wastes, may not be
provided with the handwashing aids and devices required for a HANDWASHING
SINK as specified under §§ 6-301.11 and 6-301.12 and ¶ 5-501.16(C).
6-301.14 Handwashing Signage.
A sign or poster that notifies FOOD EMPLOYEES to wash their hands shall be
provided at all HANDWASHING SINKS used by FOOD EMPLOYEES and shall be clearly
visible to FOOD EMPLOYEES.
6-301.20 Disposable Towels, Waste Receptacle.
A HANDWASHING SINK or group of adjacent HANDWASHING SINKS that is provided
with disposable towels shall be provided with a waste receptacle as specified
under ¶ 5-501.16(C).
6-302 Toilets and Urinals
6-302.10 Minimum Number.
Toilets and urinals shall be provided as specified under § 5-203.12.
6-302.11 Toilet Tissue, Availability.
A supply of toilet tissue shall be available at each toilet. Pf
6-303 Lighting
6-303.11 Intensity.
The light intensity shall be:
(A) At least 108 lux (10 foot candles) at 75 cm (30 inches) above the floor,
in walk-in refrigeration units and dry FOOD storage areas and in other
areas and rooms during periods of cleaning;
145

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 6. Physical Facilities
(B) At least 215 lux (20 foot candles):
(1) At a surface where FOOD is provided for CONSUMER self-service
such as buffets and salad bars or where fresh produce or
PACKAGED FOODS are sold or offered for consumption,
(2) Inside EQUIPMENT such as reach-in and under-counter
refrigerators; and
(3) At 75 cm (30 inches) above the floor in areas used for
handwashing, WAREWASHING, and EQUIPMENT and UTENSIL
storage, and in toilet rooms; and
(C) At least 540 lux (50 foot candles) at a surface where a FOOD EMPLOYEE
is working with FOOD or working with UTENSILS or EQUIPMENT such as
knives, slicers, grinders, or saws where EMPLOYEE safety is a factor.
6-304 Ventilation
6-304.11 Mechanical.
If necessary to keep rooms free of excessive heat, steam, condensation, vapors,
obnoxious odors, smoke, and fumes, mechanical ventilation of sufficient capacity
shall be provided.
6-305 Dressing Areas and Lockers
6-305.11 Designation.
(A) Dressing rooms or dressing areas shall be designated if EMPLOYEES routinely
change their clothes in the establishment.
(B) Lockers or other suitable facilities shall be provided for the orderly storage of
EMPLOYEES' clothing and other possessions.
6-306 Service Sinks
6-306.10 Availability.
A service sink or curbed cleaning facility shall be provided as specified under
¶ 5-203.13(A).
146

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 6. Physical Facilities
6-4 Location and Placement
Subparts:
6-401 Handwashing Sinks
6-402 Toilet Rooms
6-403 Employee Accommodations
6-404 Distressed Merchandise
6-405 Refuse, Recyclables, and Returnables
6-401 Handwashing Sinks
6-401.10 Conveniently Located.
HANDWASHING SINKS shall be conveniently located as specified under § 5-204.11.
6-402 Toilet Rooms
6-402.11 Convenience and Accessibility.
Toilet rooms shall be conveniently located and accessible to EMPLOYEES during
all hours of operation.
6-403 Employee Accommodations
6-403.11 Designated Areas.
(A) Areas designated for EMPLOYEES to eat, drink, and use TOBACCO PRODUCTS
shall be located so that FOOD, EQUIPMENT, LINENS, and SINGLE-SERVICE and
SINGLE-USE ARTICLES are protected from contamination.
(B) Lockers or other suitable facilities shall be in a designated room or area
where contamination of FOOD, EQUIPMENT, UTENSILS, LINENS, and SINGLE-
SERVICE and SINGLE-USE ARTICLES cannot occur.
6-404 Distressed Merchandise
6-404.11 Segregation and Location.
Products that are held by the PERMIT HOLDER for credit, redemption, or return to
the distributor, such as damaged, spoiled, or recalled products, shall be
segregated and held in designated areas that are separated from FOOD,
EQUIPMENT, UTENSILS, LINENS, and SINGLE-SERVICE and SINGLE-USE ARTICLES. Pf
147

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 6. Physical Facilities
6-405 Refuse, Recyclables, and Returnables
6-405.10 Receptacles, Waste Handling Units, and Designated Storage
Areas.
Units, receptacles, and areas designated for storage of REFUSE and recyclable
and returnable containers shall be located as specified under § 5-501.19.
6-5 Maintenance and Operation
6-501 Premises, Structures, Attachments, and Fixtures - Methods
6-501.11 Repairing
PHYSICAL FACILITIES shall be maintained in good repair.
6-501.12 Cleaning, Frequency and Restrictions.
(A) PHYSICAL FACILITIES shall be cleaned as often as necessary to keep them
clean.
(B) Except for cleaning that is necessary due to a spill or other accident, cleaning
shall be done during periods when the least amount of FOOD is exposed such
as after closing.
6-501.13 Cleaning Floors, Dustless Methods.
(A) Except as specified in ¶ (B) of this section, only dustless methods of cleaning
shall be used, such as wet cleaning, vacuum cleaning, mopping with treated
dust mops, or sweeping using a broom and dust-arresting compounds. .
(B) Spills or drippage on floors that occur between normal floor cleaning times
may be cleaned:
(1) Without the use of dust-arresting compounds; and
(2) In the case of liquid spills or drippage, with the use of a small amount
of absorbent compound such as sawdust or diatomaceous earth
applied immediately before spot cleaning.
6-501.14 Cleaning Ventilation Systems, Nuisance and Discharge
Prohibition.
(A) Intake and exhaust air ducts shall be cleaned and filters changed so they are
not a source of contamination by dust, dirt, and other materials.
(B) If vented to the outside, ventilation systems may not create a public health
HAZARD or nuisance or unLAWful discharge.
148

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 6. Physical Facilities
6-501.15 Cleaning Maintenance Tools, Preventing Contamination.
FOOD preparation sinks, HANDWASHING SINKS, and WAREWASHING EQUIPMENT may
not be used for the cleaning of maintenance tools, the preparation or holding of
maintenance materials, or the disposal of mop water and similar liquid wastes. Pf
6-501.16 Drying Mops.
After use, mops shall be placed in a position that allows them to air-dry without
soiling walls, EQUIPMENT, or supplies.
6-501.17 Absorbent Materials on Floors, Use Limitation.
Except as specified in ¶ 6-501.13(B), sawdust, wood shavings, granular salt,
baked clay, diatomaceous earth, or similar materials may not be used on floors.
6-501.18 Cleaning of Plumbing Fixtures.
PLUMBING FIXTURES such as HANDWASHING SINKS, toilets, and urinals shall be
cleaned as often as necessary to keep them clean.
6-501.19 Closing Toilet Room Doors.
Except during cleaning and maintenance operations, toilet room doors as
specified under § 6-202.14 shall be kept closed.
6-501.110 Using Dressing Rooms and Lockers.
(A) Dressing rooms shall be used by EMPLOYEES if the EMPLOYEES regularly
change their clothes in the establishment.
(B) Lockers or other suitable facilities shall be used for the orderly storage of
EMPLOYEE clothing and other possessions.
6-501.111 Controlling Pests.
The PREMISES shall be maintained free of insects, rodents, and other pests. The
presence of insects, rodents, and other pests shall be controlled to eliminate their
presence on the PREMISES by:
(A) Routinely inspecting incoming shipments of FOOD and supplies;
(B) Routinely inspecting the PREMISES for evidence of pests;
(C) Using methods, if pests are found, such as trapping devices or other
means of pest control as specified under §§ 7-202.12, 7-206.12, and
7-206.13; Pf and
(D) Eliminating harborage conditions.
149

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 6. Physical Facilities
6-501.112 Removing Dead or Trapped Birds, Insects, Rodents, and Other
Pests.
Dead or trapped birds, insects, rodents, and other pests shall be removed from
control devices and the PREMISES at a frequency that prevents their accumulation,
decomposition, or the attraction of pests.
6-501.113 Storing Maintenance Tools.
Maintenance tools such as brooms, mops, vacuum cleaners, and similar items
shall be:
(A) Stored so they do not contaminate FOOD, EQUIPMENT, UTENSILS, LINENS,
and SINGLE-SERVICE and SINGLE-USE ARTICLES; and
(B) Stored in an orderly manner that facilitates cleaning the area used for
storing the maintenance tools.
6-501.114 Maintaining Premises, Unnecessary Items, and Litter.
The PREMISES shall be free of:
(A) Items that are unnecessary to the operation or maintenance of the
establishment such as EQUIPMENT that is nonfunctional or no longer
used; and
(B) Litter.
6-501.115 Prohibiting Animals.
(A) Except as specified in ¶¶ (B), (C) and (D) of this section, live animals may not
be allowed on the PREMISES of a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. Pf
(B) Live animals may be allowed in the following situations if the contamination of
FOOD; clean EQUIPMENT, UTENSILS, and LINENS; and unwrapped SINGLE-SERVICE
and SINGLE-USE ARTICLES cannot result:
(1) Edible FISH or decorative FISH in aquariums, shellfish or crustacea on
ice or under refrigeration, and shellfish and crustacea in display tank
systems;
(2) Patrol dogs accompanying police or security officers in offices and
dining, sales, and storage areas, and sentry dogs running loose in
outside fenced areas;
(3) In areas that are not used for FOOD preparation and that are usually
open for customers, such as dining and sales areas, SERVICE ANIMALS
that are controlled by the disabled EMPLOYEE or PERSON, if a health or
safety HAZARD will not result from the presence or activities of the
SERVICE ANIMAL;
150

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 6. Physical Facilities
(4) Pets in the common dining areas of institutional care facilities such as
nursing homes, assisted living facilities, group homes, or residential
care facilities at times other than during meals if:
(a) Effective partitioning and self-closing doors separate the
common dining areas from FOOD storage or FOOD preparation
areas,
(b) Condiments, EQUIPMENT, and UTENSILS are stored in enclosed
cabinets or removed from the common dining areas when pets
are present, and
(c) Dining areas including tables, countertops, and similar surfaces
are effectively cleaned before the next meal service; and
(5) In areas that are not used for FOOD preparation, storage, sales, display,
or dining, in which there are caged animals or animals that are similarly
confined, such as in a variety store that sells pets or a tourist park that
displays animals.
(C) Live or dead fish bait may be stored if contamination of FOOD; CLEAN
EQUIPMENT, UTENSILS, and LINENS; and unwrapped SINGLE-SERVICE AND SINGLE-
USE ARTICLES cannot result.
(D) If APPROVED by the REGULATORY AUTHORITY, FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS may allow
pet dogs in outdoor dining areas.
151

This page is intentionally left blank.
152

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 7. Poisonous or Toxic Materials
Chapter 7. Poisonous or Toxic
Materials
Parts:
7-1 Labeling and Identification
7-2 Operational Supplies and Applications
7-3 Stock and Retail Sale
7-1 Labeling and Identification
Subparts:
7-101 Original Containers
7-102 Working Containers
7-101 Original Containers
7-101.11 Identifying Information, Prominence
Containers of POISONOUS OR TOXIC MATERIALS and PERSONAL CARE ITEMS shall bear
a legible manufacturer's label. Pf
7-102 Working Containers
7-102.11 Common Name.
Working containers used for storing POISONOUS OR TOXIC MATERIALS such as
cleaners and SANITIZERS taken from bulk supplies shall be clearly and individually
identified with the common name of the material. Pf
153

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 7. Poisonous or Toxic Materials
7-2 Operational Supplies and Applications
Subparts:
7-201 Storage
7-202 Presence and Use
7-203 Container Prohibitions
7-204 Chemicals
7-205 Lubricants
7-206 Pesticides
7-207 Medicines
7-208 First Aid Supplies
7-209 Other Personal Care Items
7-201 Storage
7-201.11 Separation.
POISONOUS OR TOXIC MATERIALS shall be stored so they cannot contaminate FOOD,
EQUIPMENT, UTENSILS, LINENS, and SINGLE-SERVICE and SINGLE-USE ARTICLES by:
(A) Separating the POISONOUS OR TOXIC MATERIALS by spacing or
partitioning; P and
(B) Locating the POISONOUS OR TOXIC MATERIALS in an area that is not
above FOOD, EQUIPMENT, UTENSILS, LINENS, and SINGLE-SERVICE or
SINGLE-USE ARTICLES. This paragraph does not apply to EQUIPMENT and
UTENSIL cleaners and SANITIZERS that are stored in WAREWASHING areas
for availability and convenience if the materials are stored to prevent
contamination of FOOD, EQUIPMENT, UTENSILS, LINENS, and SINGLE-
SERVICE and SINGLE-USE ARTICLES. P
7-202 Presence and Use
7-202.11 Restriction.
(A) Only those POISONOUS OR TOXIC MATERIALS that are required for the operation
and maintenance of a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT, such as for the cleaning and
SANITIZING of EQUIPMENT and UTENSILS and the control of insects and rodents,
shall be allowed in a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. Pf
(B) Paragraph (A) of this section does not apply to PACKAGED POISONOUS OR TOXIC
MATERIALS that are for retail sale.
154

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 7. Poisonous or Toxic Materials
7-202.12 Conditions of Use.
POISONOUS OR TOXIC MATERIALS shall be:
(A) Used according to:
(1) LAW and this Code,
(2) Manufacturer's use directions included in labeling, and, for a
pesticide, manufacturer's label instructions that state that use is
allowed in a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT, P
(3) The conditions of certification, if certification is required, for use
of the pest control materials, P and
(4) Additional conditions that may be established by the
REGULATORY AUTHORITY; and
(B) Applied so that:
(1) A HAZARD to EMPLOYEES or other PERSONS is not constituted, P
and
(2) Contamination including toxic residues due to drip, drain, fog,
splash or spray on FOOD, EQUIPMENT, UTENSILS, LINENS, and
SINGLE-SERVICE and SINGLE-USE ARTICLES is prevented, and this
is achieved by: P
(a) Removing the items, P
(b) Covering the items with impermeable covers, P or
(c) Taking other appropriate preventive actions, P and
(d) Cleaning and SANITIZING EQUIPMENT and UTENSILS after
the application. P
(C) A RESTRICTED USE PESTICIDE shall be applied only by an applicator
certified as defined in 7 USC 136 Definitions, (e) Certified Applicator, of
the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, or a PERSON
under the direct supervision of a certified applicator. Pf
7-203 Container Prohibitions
7-203.11 Poisonous or Toxic Material Containers.
A container previously used to store POISONOUS OR TOXIC MATERIALS may not be
used to store, transport, or dispense FOOD, EQUIPMENT, UTENSILS, LINENS, SINGLE-
SERVICE or SINGLE-USE ARTICLES. P
155

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 7. Poisonous or Toxic Materials
7-204 Chemicals
7-204.11 Sanitizers, Criteria.
Chemical SANITIZERS, including chemical SANITIZING solutions generated on-site,
and other chemical antimicrobials applied to FOOD-CONTACT SURFACEs shall:
(A) Meet the requirements specified in 40 CFR 180.940 Tolerance
exemptions for active and inert ingredients for use in antimicrobial
formulations (FOOD-CONTACT SURFACE SANITIZING solutions)P, or
(B) Meet the requirements as specified in 40 CFR 180.2020 Pesticide
Chemicals Not Requiring a Tolerance or Exemption from Tolerance-
Non-food determinations . P
7-204.12 Chemicals for Washing, Treatment, Storage and Processing
Fruits and Vegetables, Criteria.
Chemicals, including those generated on-site, used to wash or peel raw, whole
fruits and vegetables or used in the treatment, storage, and processing of fruits
and vegetables shall:
(A) Be an APPROVED FOOD ADDITIVE listed for this intended use in
21 CFR 173, P or
(B) Be generally recognized as safe (GRAS) for this intended use, P or
(C) Be the subject of an effective FOOD contact notification for this
intended use (only effective for the manufacturer or supplier identified
in the notification), P and
(D) Meet the requirements in 40 CFR 156 Labeling Requirements for
Pesticide and Devices. P
7-204.13 Boiler Water Additives, Criteria.
Chemicals used as boiler water ADDITIVES shall meet the requirements specified
in 21 CFR 173.310 Boiler water additives. P
7-204.14 Drying Agents, Criteria.
Drying agents used in conjunction with SANITIZATION shall:
(A) Contain only components that are listed as one of the following:
(1) Generally recognized as safe for use in FOOD as specified in
21 CFR 182 - Substances Generally Recognized as Safe, or
21 CFR 184 - Direct Food Substances Affirmed as Generally
Recognized as Safe, P
(2) Generally recognized as safe for the intended use as specified
in 21 CFR 186 - Indirect Food Substances Affirmed as
Generally Recognized as Safe, P
156

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 7. Poisonous or Toxic Materials
(3) Generally recognized as safe for the intended use as
determined by experts qualified in scientific training and
experience to evaluate the safety of substances added, directly
or indirectly, to FOOD as described in 21 CFR 170.30 Eligibility
for classification as generally recognized as safe (GRAS), P
(4) Subject of an effective Food Contact Notification as described in
the Federal Food Drug and Cosmetic Act (FFDCA) Section
409(h), P
(5) APPROVED for use as a drying agent under a prior sanction as
described in the Federal Food Drug and Cosmetic Act (FFDCA)
§ 201(s)(4); P
(6) Specifically regulated as an indirect FOOD ADDITIVE for use as a
drying agent as specified in 21 CFR Parts 174-178, P or
(7) APPROVED for use as a drying agent under the threshold of
regulation process established by 21 CFR 170.39 Threshold of
regulation for substances used in food-contact articles; P and
(B) When SANITIZATION is with chemicals, the APPROVAL required under
Subparagraph (A)(5) or (A)(7) of this section or the regulation as an
indirect FOOD ADDITIVE required under Subparagraph (A)(6) of this
section, shall be specifically for use with chemical SANITIZING solutions. P
7-205 Lubricants
7-205.11 Incidental Food Contact, Criteria.
Lubricants shall meet the requirements specified in 21 CFR 178.3570 Lubricants
with incidental food contact, if they are used on FOOD-CONTACT SURFACES, on
bearings and gears located on or within FOOD-CONTACT SURFACES, or on bearings
and gears that are located so that lubricants may leak, drip, or be forced into
FOOD or onto FOOD-CONTACT SURFACES. P
7-206 Pesticides
7-206.11 Restricted Use Pesticides, Criteria.
RESTRICTED USE PESTICIDES specified under ¶ 7-202.12(C) shall meet the
requirements specified in 40 CFR 152 Subpart I - Classification of Pesticides. P
7-206.12 Rodent Bait Stations.
Rodent bait shall be contained in a covered, tamper-resistant bait station. P
157

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 7. Poisonous or Toxic Materials
7-206.13 Tracking Powders, Pest Control and Monitoring.
(A) Except as specified in ¶ (B) of this section, a tracking powder pesticide may
not be used in a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. P
(B) If used, a nontoxic tracking powder such as talcum or flour may not
contaminate FOOD, EQUIPMENT, UTENSILS, LINENS, and SINGLE-SERVICE and
SINGLE-USE ARTICLES.
7-207 Medicines
7-207.11 Restriction and Storage.
(A) Except for medicines that are stored or displayed for retail sale, only those
medicines that are necessary for the health of EMPLOYEES shall be allowed in
a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. Pf
(B) Medicines that are in a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT for the EMPLOYEES' use shall be
labeled as specified under § 7-101.11 and located to prevent the
contamination of FOOD, EQUIPMENT, UTENSILS, LINENS, and SINGLE-SERVICE and
SINGLE-USE ARTICLES. P
7-207.12 Refrigerated Medicines, Storage.
Medicines belonging to EMPLOYEES or to children in a day care center that require
refrigeration and are stored in a FOOD refrigerator shall be:
(A) Stored in a package or container and kept inside a covered, leakproof
container that is identified as a container for the storage of medicines; P
and
(B) Located so they are inaccessible to children. P
7-208 First Aid Supplies
7-208.11 Storage.
First aid supplies that are in a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT for the EMPLOYEES' use shall be:
(A) Labeled as specified under § 7-101.11; Pf and
(B) Stored in a kit or a container that is located to prevent the
contamination of FOOD, EQUIPMENT, UTENSILS, and LINENS, and SINGLE-
SERVICE and SINGLE-USE ARTICLES. P
7-209 Other Personal Care Items
7-209.11 Storage.
Except as specified under §§ 7-207.12 and 7-208.11, EMPLOYEES shall store their
PERSONAL CARE ITEMS in facilities as specified under ¶ 6-305.11(B).
158

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 7. Poisonous or Toxic Materials
7-3 Stock and Retail Sale
7-301 Storage and Display
7-301.11 Separation.
POISONOUS or TOXIC MATERIALS shall be stored and displayed for retail sale so
they cannot contaminate FOOD, EQUIPMENT, UTENSILS, LINENS, and SINGLE-SERVICE
and SINGLE-USE ARTICLES by:
(A) Separating the POISONOUS or TOXIC MATERIALS by spacing or
partitioning; P and
(B) Locating the POISONOUS OR TOXIC MATERIALS in an area that is not
above FOOD, EQUIPMENT, UTENSILS, LINENS, and SINGLE-SERVICE or
SINGLE-USE ARTICLES. P
159

This page is left intentionally blank.
160

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 8. Compliance and Enforcement
Chapter 8. Compliance and
Enforcement
Parts:
8-1 Code Applicability
8-2 Plan Submission and Approval
8-3 Permit to Operate
8-4 Inspection and Correction of Violations
8-5 Prevention of Foodborne Disease Transmission By Employees
8-1 Code Applicability
Subparts:
8-101 Use for Intended Purpose
8-102 Additional Requirements
8-103 Variances
8-101 Use for Intended Purpose
8-101.10 Public Health Protection.
(A) The REGULATORY AUTHORITY shall apply this Code to promote its purpose, as
specified in § 1-102.10, of safeguarding public health and ensuring that FOOD
is safe, unADULTERATED, and honestly presented .when offered to the
CONSUMER or donated.
(B) In enforcing the provisions of this Code, the REGULATORY AUTHORITY shall
assess existing facilities or EQUIPMENT that were in use before the effective
date of this Code based on the following considerations:
(1) Whether the facilities or EQUIPMENT are in good repair and capable of
being maintained in a sanitary condition;
(2) Whether FOOD-CONTACT SURFACES comply with Subpart 4-101;
(3) Whether the capacities of cooling, heating, and holding EQUIPMENT are
sufficient to comply with § 4-301.11; and
(4) The existence of a documented agreement with the PERMIT HOLDER that
the facilities or EQUIPMENT will be replaced as specified under
¶ 8-304.11(G).
161

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 8. Compliance and Enforcement
8-102 Additional Requirements
8-102.10 Preventing Health Hazards, Provision for Conditions Not
Addressed.
(A) If necessary to protect against public health HAZARDS or nuisances, the
REGULATORY AUTHORITY may impose specific requirements in addition to the
requirements contained in this Code that are authorized by LAW.
(B) The REGULATORY AUTHORITY shall document the conditions that necessitate
the imposition of additional requirements and the underlying public health
rationale. The documentation shall be provided to the PERMIT applicant or
PERMIT HOLDER and a copy shall be maintained in the REGULATORY
AUTHORITY’S file for the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT.
8-103 Variances
8-103.10 Modifications and Waivers.
The REGULATORY AUTHORITY may grant a VARIANCE by modifying or waiving the
requirements of this Code if in the opinion of the REGULATORY AUTHORITY a health
HAZARD or nuisance will not result from the VARIANCE. If a VARIANCE is granted, the
REGULATORY AUTHORITY shall retain the information specified under § 8-103.11 in
its records for the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT.
8-103.11 Documentation of Proposed Variance and Justification.
Before a VARIANCE from a requirement of this Code is APPROVED, the information
that shall be provided by the PERSON requesting the VARIANCE and retained in the
REGULATORY AUTHORITY'S file on the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT includes:
(A) A statement of the proposed VARIANCE of the Code requirement citing
relevant Code section numbers; Pf
(B) An analysis of the rationale for how the potential public health HAZARDS
and nuisances addressed by the relevant Code sections will be
alternatively addressed by the proposal; Pf and
(C) A HACCP PLAN if required as specified under ¶ 8-201.13(A) that
includes the information specified under § 8-201.14 as it is relevant to
the VARIANCE requested. Pf
162

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 8. Compliance and Enforcement
8-103.12 Conformance with Approved Procedures.
If the REGULATORY AUTHORITY grants a VARIANCE as specified in § 8-103.10, or a
HACCP PLAN is otherwise required as specified under § 8-201.13, the PERMIT
HOLDER shall:
(A) Maintain the approved VARIANCE at the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT; Pf and
(B) Comply with the HACCP PLANs and procedures that are submitted as
specified under § 8-201.14 and APPROVED as a basis for the
modification or waiver; P and
(C) Maintain and provide to the REGULATORY AUTHORITY, upon request,
records specified under § 8-201.14 (D) and (E)(3) that demonstrate
that the following are routinely employed;
(1) Procedures for monitoring the CRITICAL CONTROL POINTS, Pf
(2) Monitoring of the CRITICAL CONTROL POINTS, Pf
(3) Verification of the effectiveness of the operation or process, Pf
and
(4) Necessary corrective actions if there is failure at a CRITICAL
CONTROL POINT. Pf
8-2 Plan Submission and Approval
Subparts:
8-201 Facility and Operating Plans
8-202 Confidentiality
8-203 Construction Inspection and Approval
8-201 Facility and Operating Plans
8-201.11 When Plans Are Required.
A PERMIT applicant or PERMIT HOLDER shall submit to the REGULATORY AUTHORITY
properly prepared plans and specifications for review and APPROVAL before:
(A) The construction of a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT; Pf
(B) The conversion of an existing structure for use as a FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT; Pf or
(C) The remodeling of a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT or a change of type of FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT or FOOD operation as specified under ¶ 8-302.14(C) if
the REGULATORY AUTHORITY determines that plans and specifications
are necessary to ensure compliance with this Code. Pf
163

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 8. Compliance and Enforcement
8-201.12 Contents of the Plans and Specifications.
The plans and specifications for a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT, including a FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT specified under § 8-201.13, shall include, as required by the
REGULATORY AUTHORITY based on the type of operation, type of FOOD preparation,
and FOODS prepared, the following information to demonstrate conformance with
Code provisions:
(A) Intended menu
(B) Anticipated volume of FOOD to be stored, prepared, and sold or served;
(C) Proposed layout, mechanical schematics, construction materials, and
finish schedules;
(D) Proposed EQUIPMENT types, manufacturers, model numbers, locations,
dimensions, performance capacities, and installation specifications;
(E) Evidence that standard procedures that ensure compliance with the
requirements of this Code are developed or are being developed; and
(F) Other information that may be required by the REGULATORY AUTHORITY
for the proper review of the proposed construction, conversion or
modification, and procedures for operating a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT.
8-201.13 When a HACCP Plan is Required.
(A) Before engaging in an activity that requires a HACCP PLAN, a PERMIT
applicant or PERMIT HOLDER shall submit to the REGULATORY AUTHORITY for
APPROVAL a properly prepared HACCP PLAN as specified under § 8-201.14 and
the relevant provisions of this Code if:
(1) Submission of a HACCP PLAN is required according to LAW;
(2) A VARIANCE is required as specified under Subparagraph
3-401.11(D)(4), § 3-502.11, or ¶ 4-204.110(B);
(3) The REGULATORY AUTHORITY determines that a FOOD preparation or
processing method requires a VARIANCE based on a plan submittal
specified under § 8-201.12, an inspectional finding, or a VARIANCE
request.
(B) Before engaging in REDUCED OXYGEN PACKAGING without a VARIANCE as
specified under § 3-502.12, a PERMIT applicant or PERMIT HOLDER shall submit
a properly prepared HACCP PLAN to the REGULATORY AUTHORITY.
8-201.14 Contents of an HACCP Plan.
For a food establishment that is required under § 8-201.13 to have a HACCP
PLAN, the PERMIT applicant or PERMIT HOLDER shall submit to the REGULATORY
AUTHORITY a properly prepared HACCP PLAN that includes:
(A) General information such as the name of the PERMIT applicant or
PERMIT HOLDER, the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT address, and contact
information;
164

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 8. Compliance and Enforcement
(B) A categorization of the types of TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR
SAFETY FOODS that are to be controlled under the HACCP PLAN; Pf
(C) A flow diagram or chart for each specific FOOD or category type that
identifies:
(1) Each step in the process; Pf and
(2) The steps that are CRITICAL CONTROL POINTS; Pf
(D) The ingredients, recipes or formulations, materials and EQUIPMENT
used in the preparation of each specific FOOD or category type and
methods and procedural control measures that address the FOOD
safety concerns involved; Pf
(E) A CRITICAL CONTROL POINTS summary for each specific FOOD or
category type that clearly identifies:
(1) Each CRITICAL CONTROL POINT, Pf
(2) The significant HAZARDS for each CRITICAL CONTROL POINT, Pf
(3) The CRITICAL LIMITS for each CRITICAL CONTROL POINT, Pf
(4) The method and frequency for monitoring and controlling each
CRITICAL CONTROL POINT by the designated FOOD EMPLOYEE or
THE PERSON IN CHARGE, Pf
(5) Action to be taken by the designated FOOD EMPLOYEE or PERSON
IN CHARGE if the CRITICAL LIMITS for each CRITICAL CONTROL POINT
are not met, Pf
(6) The method and frequency for the PERSON IN CHARGE to routinely
verify that the FOOD EMPLOYEE is following standard operating
procedures and monitoring CRITICAL CONTROL POINTS, Pf and
(7) Records to be maintained by the PERSON IN CHARGE to
demonstrate that the HACCP PLAN is properly operated and
managed; Pf
(F) Supporting documents such as:
(1) FOOD EMPLOYEE that addresses the FOOD safety issues of
concern; Pf
(2) Copies of blank records forms that are necessary to implement
the HACCP PLAN; Pf
(3) Additional scientific data or other information, as required by the
REGULATORY AUTHORITY, supporting the determination that FOOD
safety is not compromised by the proposal. Pf
(G) Any other information required by the REGULATORY AUTHORITY.
165

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 8. Compliance and Enforcement
8-202 Confidentiality
8-202.10 Trade Secrets.
The REGULATORY AUTHORITY shall treat as confidential in accordance with LAW,
information that meets the criteria specified in LAW for a trade secret and is
contained on inspection report forms and in the plans and specifications
submitted as specified under §§ 8-201.12 and 8-201.14.
8-203 Construction Inspection and Approval
8-203.10 Preoperational Inspections.
The REGULATORY AUTHORITY shall conduct one or more preoperational inspections
to verify that the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT is constructed and equipped in accordance
with the APPROVED plans and APPROVED modifications of those plans, has
established standard operating procedures as specified under ¶ 8-201.12(E), and
is in compliance with LAW and this Code.
8-3 Permit to Operate
Subparts:
8-301 Requirement
8-302 Application Procedure
8-303 Issuance
8-304 Conditions of Retention
8-301 Requirement
8-301.11 Prerequisite for Operation.
A PERSON may not operate a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT without a valid PERMIT to
operate issued by the REGULATORY AUTHORITY. Pf
8-302 Application Procedure
8-302.11 Submission 30 Calendar Days Before Proposed Opening.
An applicant shall submit an application for a PERMIT at least 30 calendar days
before the date planned for opening a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT or the expiration date
of the current PERMIT for an existing facility.
8-302.12 Form of Submission.
A PERSON desiring to operate a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT shall submit to the
REGULATORY AUTHORITY a written application for a PERMIT on a form provided by
the REGULATORY AUTHORITY.
166

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 8. Compliance and Enforcement
8-302.13 Qualifications and Responsibilities of Applicants.
To qualify for a PERMIT, an applicant shall:
(A) Be an owner of the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT or an officer of the legal
ownership;
(B) Comply with the requirements of this Code;
(C) As specified under § 8-402.11, agree to allow access to the FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT and to provide required information; and
(D) Pay the applicable PERMIT fees at the time the application is submitted.
8-302.14 Contents of the Application.
The application shall include:
(A) The name, birth date, mailing address, telephone number, and
signature of the PERSON applying for the PERMIT and the name, mailing
address, and location of the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT;
(B) Information specifying whether the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT is owned by
an association, corporation, individual, partnership, or other legal
entity;
(C) A statement specifying whether the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT:
(1) Is mobile or stationary and temporary or permanent, and
(2) Is an operation that includes one or more of the following:
(a) Prepares, offers for sale, or serves TIME/TEMPERATURE
CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD:
(i) Only to order upon a CONSUMER'S request,
(ii) In advance in quantities based on projected
CONSUMER demand and discards FOOD that is not
sold or served at an APPROVED frequency, or
(iii) Using time as the public health control as
specified under § 3-501.19,
(b) Prepares TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD in
advance using a FOOD preparation method that involves
two or more steps which may include combining
TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD ingredients;
cooking; cooling; reheating; hot or cold holding; freezing;
or thawing,
(c) Prepares FOOD as specified under Subparagraph
(C)(2)(b) of this section for delivery to and consumption
at a location off the PREMISES of the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT
where it is prepared,
167

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 8. Compliance and Enforcement
(d) Prepares FOOD as specified under Subparagraph
(C)(2)(b) of this section for service to a HIGHLY
SUSCEPTIBLE POPULATION,
(e) Prepares only food that is not TIME/TEMPERATURE
CONTROL OF SAFETY FOOD, or
(f) Does not prepare, but offers for sale only prePACKAGED
FOOD that is not TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY
FOOD;
(D) The name, title, address, and telephone number of the PERSON directly
responsible for the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT;
(E) The name, title, address, and telephone number of the PERSON who
functions as the immediate supervisor of the PERSON specified under
¶ (D) of this section such as the zone, district, or regional supervisor;
(F) The names, titles, and addresses of:
(1) The PERSONS comprising the legal ownership as specified under
¶ (B) of this section including the owners and officers, and
(2) The local resident agent if one is required based on the type of
legal ownership;
(G) A statement signed by the applicant that:
(1) Attests to the accuracy of the information provided in the
application, and
(2) Affirms that the applicant will:
(a) Comply with this Code, and
(b) Allow the REGULATORY AUTHORITY access to the
establishment as specified under § 8-402.11 and to the
records specified under §§ 3-203.12 and 5-205.13 and
Subparagraph 8-201.14(D)(6); and
(H) Other information required by the REGULATORY AUTHORITY.
8-303 Issuance
8-303.10 New, Converted, or Remodeled Establishments.
For FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS that are required to submit plans as specified under
§ 8-201.11 the REGULATORY AUTHORITY shall issue a PERMIT to the applicant after:
(A) A properly completed application is submitted;
(B) The required fee is submitted;
(C) The required plans, specifications, and information are reviewed and
APPROVED; and
168

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 8. Compliance and Enforcement
(D) A preoperational inspection as specified in § 8-203.10 shows that the
establishment is built or remodeled in accordance with the APPROVED
plans and specifications and that the establishment is in compliance
with this Code.
8-303.20 Existing Establishments, Permit Renewal, and Change of
Ownership.
The REGULATORY AUTHORITY may renew a PERMIT for an existing FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT or may issue a PERMIT to a new owner of an existing FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT after a properly completed application is submitted, reviewed, and
APPROVED, the fees are paid, and an inspection shows that the establishment is
in compliance with this Code.
8-303.30 Denial of Application for Permit, Notice.
If an application for a PERMIT to operate is denied, the REGULATORY AUTHORITY
shall provide the applicant with a notice that includes:
(A) The specific reasons and Code citations for the PERMIT denial;
(B) The actions, if any, that the applicant must take to qualify for a PERMIT;
and
(C) Advisement of the applicant's right of appeal and the process and time
frames for appeal that are provided in LAW.
8-304 Conditions of Retention
8-304.10 Responsibilities of the Regulatory Authority.
(A) At the time a PERMIT is first issued, the REGULATORY AUTHORITY shall provide to
the PERMIT HOLDER a copy of this Code so that the PERMIT HOLDER is notified of
the compliance requirements and the conditions of retention, as specified
under § 8-304.11, that are applicable to the PERMIT.
(B) Failure to provide the information specified in ¶ (A) of this section does not
prevent the REGULATORY AUTHORITY from taking authorized action or seeking
remedies if the PERMIT HOLDER fails to comply with this Code or an order,
warning, or directive of the REGULATORY AUTHORITY.,
8-304.11 Responsibilities of the Permit Holder.
Upon acceptance of the PERMIT issued by the REGULATORY AUTHORITY, the PERMIT
HOLDER, to retain the PERMIT, shall:
(A) Post the PERMIT in a location in the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT that is
conspicuous to CONSUMERS;
(B) Comply with the provisions of this Code including the conditions of a
granted VARIANCE as specified under § 8-103.12, and APPROVED plans
as specified under § 8-201.12;
169

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 8. Compliance and Enforcement
(C) If a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT is required under § 8-201.13 to operate under
a HACCP PLAN, comply with the plan as specified under § 8-103.12;
(D) Immediately contact the REGULATORY AUTHORITY to report an illness of
a FOOD EMPLOYEE or CONDITIONAL EMPLOYEE as specified under ¶
2-201.11(B);
(E) Immediately discontinue operations and notify the REGULATORY
AUTHORITY if an IMMINENT HEALTH HAZARD may exist as specified under §
8-404.11;
(F) Allow representatives of the REGULATORY AUTHORITY access to the
FOOD ESTABLISHMENT as specified under § 8-402.11;
(G) Replace existing facilities and EQUIPMENT specified in § 8-101.10 with
facilities and EQUIPMENT that comply with this Code if:
(1) The REGULATORY AUTHORITY directs the replacement because
the facilities and EQUIPMENT constitute a public health HAZARD or
nuisance or no longer comply with the criteria upon which the
facilities and EQUIPMENT were accepted,
(2) The REGULATORY AUTHORITY directs the replacement of the
facilities and EQUIPMENT because of a change of ownership, or
(3) The facilities and EQUIPMENT are replaced in the normal course
of operation;
(H) Comply with directives of the REGULATORY AUTHORITY including time
frames for corrective actions specified in inspection reports, notices,
orders, warnings, , and other directives issued by the REGULATORY
AUTHORITY regarding the PERMIT HOLDER'S FOOD ESTABLISHMENT or in
response to community emergencies;
(I) Accept notices issued and served by the REGULATORY AUTHORITY
according to LAW; and
(J) Be subject to the administrative, civil, injunctive, and criminal remedies
authorized in LAW for failure to complywith this Code or a directive of
the REGULATORY AUTHORITY, including time frames for corrective actions
specified in inspection reports, notices, orders, warnings, and other
directives.
(K) Notify customers that a copy of the most recent establishment
inspection report is available upon request by posting a sign or placard
in a location in the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT that is conspicuous to
customers or by another method acceptable to the REGULATORY
AUTHORITY.
8-304.20 Permits Not Transferable.
A PERMIT may not be transferred from one PERSON to another PERSON, from one
FOOD ESTABLISHMENT to another, or from one type of operation to another if the
170

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 8. Compliance and Enforcement
FOOD operation changes from the type of operation specified in the application as
specified under ¶ 8-302.14(C) and the change in operation is not APPROVED.
8-4 Inspection and Correction of Violations
Subparts:
8-401 Frequency
8-402 Competency and Access
8-403 Report of Findings
8-404 Imminent Health Hazard
8-405 Violation of Priority Item or Priority Foundation Item
8-406 Core Item Violation
8-401 Frequency
8-401.10 Establishing Inspection Interval.
(A) Except as specified in ¶¶ (B) and (C) of this section, the REGULATORY
AUTHORITY shall inspect a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT at least once every 6 months.
(B) The REGULATORY AUTHORITY may increase the interval between inspections
beyond 6 months if:
(1) The FOOD ESTABLISHMENT is fully operating under an APPROVED and
validated HACCP PLAN as specified under § 8-201.14 and
¶¶ 8-103.12(B) and (C);
(2) The FOOD ESTABLISHMENT is assigned a less frequent inspection
frequency based on a written RISK-based inspection schedule that is
being uniformly applied throughout the jurisdiction and at least once
every 6 months the establishment is contacted by telephone or other
means by the REGULATORY AUTHORITY to ensure that the establishment
manager and the nature of FOOD operation are not changed; or
(3) The establishment's operation involves only coffee service and other
unPACKAGED or prePACKAGED FOOD that is not TIME/TEMPERATURE
CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD such as carbonated BEVERAGES and snack
FOOD such as chips, nuts, popcorn, and pretzels.
(C) The REGULATORY AUTHORITY shall periodically inspect throughout its PERMIT
period a TEMPORARY FOOD ESTABLISHMENT that prepares, sells, or serves
unPACKAGED TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD and that:
(1) Has improvised rather than permanent facilities or EQUIPMENT for
accomplishing functions such as handwashing, FOOD preparation and
protection, FOOD temperature control, WAREWASHING, providing
DRINKING WATER, waste retention and disposal, and insect and rodent
control; or
(2) Has inexperienced FOOD EMPLOYEES.
171

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 8. Compliance and Enforcement
8-401.20 Performance- and Risk-Based.
Within the parameters specified in § 8-401.10, the REGULATORY AUTHORITY shall
prioritize, and conduct more frequent inspections based upon its assessment of a
FOOD ESTABLISHMENT'S history of compliance with this Code and the
establishment's potential as a vector of foodborne illness by evaluating:
(A) Past performance, for nonconformance with Code or HACCP PLAN
requirements that are PRIORITY ITEMS or PRIORITY FOUNDATION ITEMS;
(B) Past performance, for numerous or repeat violations of Code or
HACCP PLAN requirements that are CORE ITEMS;
(C) Past performance, for complaints investigated and found to be valid;
(D) The HAZARDS associated with the FOODS that are prepared, stored, or
served;
(E) The type of operation including the methods and extent of FOOD
storage, preparation, and service;
(F) The number of people served; and
(G) Whether the population served is a HIGHLY SUSCEPTIBLE POPULATION.
8-402 Competency and Access
8-402.10 Competency of Inspectors.
(A) An authorized representative of the REGULATORY AUTHORITY who inspects a
FOOD ESTABLISHMENT or conducts plan review for compliance with this Code
shall have knowledge, skills and ability to adequately perform the required
duties.
(B) The REGULATORY AUTHORITY shall ensure that authorized representatives who
inspect a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT or conduct plan review for compliance with this
Code have access to training and continuing education as needed to properly
identify violations and apply the Code.
8-402.11 Allowed at Reasonable Times after Due Notice.
After the REGULATORY AUTHORITY presents official credentials and provides notice
of the purpose of, and an intent to conduct, an inspection, the PERSON IN CHARGE
shall allow the REGULATORY AUTHORITY to determine if the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT is
in compliance with this Code by allowing access to the establishment, allowing
inspection, and providing information and records specified in this Code and to
which the REGULATORY AUTHORITY is entitled according to LAW, during the FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT'S hours of operation and other reasonable times.
172

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 8. Compliance and Enforcement
8-402.20 Refusal, Notification of Right to Access, and Final Request for
Access.
If a person denies access to the REGULATORY AUTHORITY, the REGULATORY
AUTHORITY shall:
(A) Inform the PERSON that:
(1) The PERMIT holder is required to allow access to the
REGULATORY AUTHORITY as specified under § 8-402.11 of this
Code,
(2) Access is a condition of the acceptance and retention of a FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT PERMIT to operate as specified under ¶
8-304.11(F), and
(3) If access is denied, an order issued by the appropriate authority
allowing access, hereinafter referred to as an inspection order,
may be obtained according to LAW; and
(B) Make a final request for access.
8-402.30 Refusal, Reporting.
If after the REGULATORY AUTHORITY presents credentials and provides notice as
specified under § 8-402.11, explains the authority upon which access is
requested, and makes a final request for access as specified in § 8-402.20, the
PERSON IN CHARGE continues to REFUSE access, the REGULATORY AUTHORITY shall
provide details of the denial of access on an inspection report form.
8-402.40 Inspection Order to Gain Access.
If denied access to a FOOD ESTABLISHMENT for an authorized purpose and after
complying with § 8-402.20, the REGULATORY AUTHORITY may issue, or apply for
the issuance of, an inspection order to gain access as provided in LAW.
8-403 Report of Findings
8-403.10 Documenting Information and Observations.
The REGULATORY AUTHORITY shall document on an inspection report form:
(A) Administrative information about the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT'S legal
identity, street and mailing addresses, type of establishment and
operation as specified under ¶ 8-302.14(C), inspection date, and other
information such as type of water supply and SEWAGE disposal, status
of the PERMIT, and personnel certificates that may be required; and
(B) Specific factual observations of violative conditions or other deviations
from this Code that require correction by the PERMIT HOLDER including:
(1) Failure of the PERSON IN CHARGE to demonstrate the knowledge
of foodborne illness prevention, application of HACCP
173

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 8. Compliance and Enforcement
principles, and the requirements of this Code as specified under
§ 2-102.11,
(2) Failure of FOOD EMPLOYEES, CONDITIONAL EMPLOYEES, and the
PERSON IN CHARGE to report a disease or medical condition as
specified under ¶¶ 2-201.11(B) and (D),
(3) Nonconformance with PRIORITY ITEMS OR PRIORITY FOUNDATION
ITEMS of this Code,
(4) Failure of the appropriate FOOD EMPLOYEES to demonstrate their
knowledge of, and ability to perform in accordance with, the
procedural, monitoring, verification, and corrective action
practices required by the REGULATORY AUTHORITY as specified
under § 8-103.12,
(5) Failure of the PERSON IN CHARGE to provide records required by
the REGULATORY AUTHORITY for determining conformance with a
HACCP PLAN as specified under Subparagraph 8-201.14(D)(6),
and
(6) Nonconformance with CRITICAL LIMITS of a HACCP PLAN.
8-403.20 Specifying Time Frame for Corrections.
The REGULATORY AUTHORITY shall specify on the inspection report form the time
frame for correction of the violations as specified under §§ 8-404.11, 8-405.11,
and 8-406.11.
8-403.30 Issuing Report and Obtaining Acknowledgement of Receipt.
At the conclusion of the inspection and according to LAW, the REGULATORY
AUTHORITY shall provide a copy of the completed inspection report and the notice
to correct violations to the PERMIT HOLDER or to the PERSON IN CHARGE, and
request a signed acknowledgment of receipt.
8-403.40 Refusal to Sign Acknowledgment.
The REGULATORY AUTHORITY shall:
(A) Inform a PERSON who declines to sign an acknowledgment of receipt of
inspectional findings as specified in § 8-403.30 that:
(1) An acknowledgment of receipt is not an agreement with
findings,
(2) Refusal to sign an acknowledgment of receipt will not affect the
PERMIT HOLDER'S obligation to correct the violations noted in the
inspection report within the time frames specified, and
(3) A refusal to sign an acknowledgment of receipt is noted in the
inspection report and conveyed to the REGULATORY AUTHORITY'S
historical record for the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT; and
174

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 8. Compliance and Enforcement
(B) Make a final request that the PERSON IN CHARGE sign an
acknowledgment receipt of inspectional findings.
8-403.50 Public Information.
Except as specified in § 8-202.10, the REGULATORY AUTHORITY shall treat the
inspection report as a public document and shall make it available for disclosure
to a PERSON who requests it as provided in LAW.
8-404 Imminent Health Hazard
8-404.11 Ceasing Operations and Reporting.
(A) Except as specified in ¶ (B) and (C) of this section, a PERMIT HOLDER shall
immediately discontinue operations and notify the REGULATORY AUTHORITY if
an IMMINENT HEALTH HAZARD may exist because of an emergency such as a
fire, flood, extended interruption of electrical or water service, SEWAGE
backup, misuse of POISONOUS OR TOXIC MATERIALS, onset of an apparent
FOODBORNE ILLNESS OUTBREAK, gross insanitary occurrence or condition, or
other circumstance that may endanger public health. P
(B) A PERMIT HOLDER need not discontinue operations in an area of an
establishment that is unaffected by the IMMINENT HEALTH HAZARD.
(C) Considering the nature of the potential HAZARD involved and the complexity of
the corrective action needed, the REGULATORY AUTHORITY may agree to
continuing operations in the event of an extended interruption of electrical or
water service if:
(1) A written emergency operating plan has been APPROVED;
(2) Immediate corrective action is taken to eliminate, prevent, or
control any FOOD safety RISK and IMMINENT HEALTH HAZARD
associated with the electrical or water service interruption; and
(3) The REGULATORY AUTHORITY is informed upon implementation of
the written emergency operating plan.
8-404.12 Resumption of Operations.
If operations are discontinued as specified under § 8-404.11 or otherwise
according to LAW, the PERMIT HOLDER shall obtain APPROVAL from the REGULATORY
AUTHORITY before resuming operations.
8-405 Violation of Priority Item or Priority Foundation Item
8-405.11 Timely Correction.
(A) Except as specified in ¶ (B) of this section, a PERMIT HOLDER shall at the time
of inspection correct a violation of a PRIORITY ITEM or PRIORITY FOUNDATION ITEM
of this Code and implement corrective actions for a HACCP PLAN provision
that is not in compliance with its CRITICAL LIMIT. Pf
175

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 8. Compliance and Enforcement
(B) Considering the nature of the potential HAZARD involved and the complexity of
the corrective action needed, the REGULATORY AUTHORITY may agree to or
specify a longer time frame, not to exceed:
(1) 72 hours after the inspection, for the PERMIT HOLDER to correct
violations of a PRIORITY ITEM; or
(2) 10 calendar days after the inspection, for the PERMIT HOLDER to correct
violations of a PRIORITY FOUNDATION ITEM or HACCP PLAN deviations.
8-405.20 Verification and Documentation of Correction.
(A) After observing at the time of inspection a correction of a violation of a
PRIORITY ITEM or PRIORITY FOUNDATION ITEM or a HACCP PLAN deviation, the
REGULATORY AUTHORITY shall enter the violation and information about the
corrective action on the inspection report.
(B) As specified under ¶ 8-405.11(B), after receiving notification that the PERMIT
HOLDER has corrected a violation of a PRIORITY ITEM OR PRIORITY FOUNDATION
ITEM or HACCP PLAN deviation, or at the end of the specified period, the
REGULATORY AUTHORITY shall verify correction of the violation, document the
information on an inspection report, and enter the report in the REGULATORY
AUTHORITY'S records.
8-406 Core Item Violation
8-406.11 Time Frame for Correction.
(A) Except as specified in ¶ (B) of this section, the PERMIT HOLDER shall correct
CORE ITEMS by a date and time agreed to or specified by the REGULATORY
AUTHORITY but no later than 90 calendar days after the inspection.
(B) The REGULATORY AUTHORITY may APPROVE a compliance schedule that
extends beyond the time limits specified under ¶ (A) of this section if a written
schedule of compliance is submitted by the PERMIT HOLDER and no health
HAZARD exists or will result from allowing an extended schedule for
compliance.
8-5 Prevention of Foodborne Disease Transmission By Employees
8-501 Investigation and Control
8-501.10 Obtaining Information: Personal History of Illness, Medical
Examination, and Specimen Analysis.
The REGULATORY AUTHORITY shall act when it has reasonable cause to believe
that a FOOD EMPLOYEE or CONDITIONAL EMPLOYEE has possibly transmitted
disease; may be infected with a disease in a communicable form that is
transmissible through FOOD; may be a carrier of infectious agents that cause a
176

FDA Food Code 2022 Chapter 8. Compliance and Enforcement
disease that is transmissible through FOOD; or is affected with a boil, an infected
wound, or acute respiratory infection, by:
(A) Securing a confidential medical history of the FOOD EMPLOYEE or
CONDITIONAL EMPLOYEE suspected of transmitting disease or making
other investigations as deemed appropriate; and
(B) Requiring appropriate medical examinations, including collection of
specimens for laboratory analysis, of a suspected FOOD EMPLOYEE or
CONDITIONAL EMPLOYEE.
8-501.20 Restriction or Exclusion of Food Employee, or Summary
Suspension of Permit.
Based on the findings of an investigation related to a FOOD EMPLOYEE or
CONDITIONAL EMPLOYEE who is suspected of being infected or diseased, the
REGULATORY AUTHORITY may issue an order to the suspected FOOD EMPLOYEE,
CONDITIONAL EMPLOYEE or PERMIT HOLDER instituting one or more of the following
control measures:
(A) RESTRICTING the FOOD EMPLOYEE or CONDITIONAL EMPLOYEE;
(B) EXCLUDING the FOOD EMPLOYEE or CONDITIONAL EMPLOYEE; or
(C) Closing the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT by summarily suspending a PERMIT to
operate in accordance with LAW.
8-501.30 Restriction or Exclusion Order: Warning or Hearing Not Required,
Information Required in Order.
Based on the findings of the investigation as specified in § 8-501.10 and to
control disease transmission, the REGULATORY AUTHORITY may issue an order of
RESTRICTION or EXCLUSION to a suspected FOOD EMPLOYEE or the PERMIT HOLDER
without prior warning, notice of a hearing, or a hearing if the order:
(A) States the reasons for the RESTRICTION or EXCLUSION that is ordered;
(B) States the evidence that the FOOD EMPLOYEE or PERMIT HOLDER shall
provide to demonstrate that the reasons for the RESTRICTION or
EXCLUSION are eliminated;
(C) States that the suspected FOOD EMPLOYEE or the PERMIT HOLDER may
request an appeal hearing by submitting a timely request as provided
in LAW; and
(D) Provides the name and address of the REGULATORY AUTHORITY
representative to whom a request for an appeal hearing may be made.
8-501.40 Removal of Exclusions and Restrictions.
The REGULATORY AUTHORITY shall release a FOOD EMPLOYEE, OR CONDITIONAL
EMPLOYEE from RESTRICTION or EXCLUSION according to LAW and the conditions
specified under § 2-201.13.
177

This page is left intentionally blank.
178

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
Index
Note: Index page numbers starting on page 179 are annex references.
Access Active Managerial Control, description,
491
allowed at reasonable times after due
notice, 172 Additives
court petition for, 194 boiler water, criteria, 156
denial, judicial remedies, 196 food and color definitions, 2
denied, sworn statement, 195 food upon receipt may not contain
unapproved additives, 51, 359
inspection order to gain access, 173,
184 labeling, 85
refusal, notification of right to access, limitations, 51, 52, 85, 156, 157
and final request, 173
sulfites, sulfiting agents, 59
refusal, reporting, 173
unapproved, protection from, 59
to premises and records, 184, 194
Administrative remedies, 183
Accreditation
food destruction or denaturing, 186
certification and classification, food
food examination, sampling and
equipment, 102
testing, 186
manager certification program, 26
food hold order, 184, 185, 186
Accredited program
hearing officer appointment,
certified food protection manager, 26 qualifications, 191
definition, 2 hearing officer powers, 191
Accuracy hearings administration, 187
measuring devices, pressure for inspection orders, gaining access to
mechanical warewashing, 96 premises and records, contents of
order, 184
measuring devices, temperature ,
food, water, ambient air, 96 permit, summary suspension, 186
sanitizing solutions, testing devices, Adulterated
105, 111
definition, 2
Accurate representation
food condition, 47
standards of identity, honestly
U.S. Code, USC as it relates to the
presented, 84, 85
Code Definition of Adulterated
Acidity. See pH Food, 199
Acknowledgments, xv Aflatoxin, 503
Index-1

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
Air gap. See Backflow Prevention, children's menu, 69, 378
Plumbing System
consumer advisory, 86, 422
Air temperature
serving, 68
ambient air temperature, vending
Animals. See also Game animal
machines, hot, cold holding, 99
commercially raised for food, 49, 66
for cooling, cooling methods, 74, 75
cooking of game animals
measuring devices, 99, 111
commercially raised for food, 66
Air-drying
cooking of wild game, 67
equipment and utensils, required after
exotic, limitations as food source, 50
cleaning and sanitizing, 119
game, 49
wiping cloths, locations, 119
handling by employees, prohibition
Air-filtration, filter, compressed air, 131
and exception, 45
Alkalinity. See pH
handwashing after handling, 42
Allegation of fact, response to or request
live, prohibition from premises of food
for hearing notice, 188
establishment and exceptions, 150
Allergen
wild game, 50, 67
food allergens as food safety hazards,
Anisakis simplex, 499
501
Anti-slip floor coverings, floors smooth
latex, 374
and easily cleanable, exception, 140
major food allergen, definition, 11
Appeal
Allergen awareness, PIC knowledge
denial of application for operating
and duties, 25, 28, 292
permit, 169
Alligator. See Fish definition
dismissal, hearing officer's powers,
Ambient temperature measuring 192
devices, 96, 99, 111
proceeding, timeliness, 189
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
restriction or exclusion order, 177
guidance, 256, 263
right to, acceptance of consent
Title 1 of ADA, managing ill agreement as waiver, 194
employees, 299
Applicant for permit to operate food
Animal foods, raw establishment
consumer self-service, limitations, 65 information required, 166, 167
cooking requirements, 66, 69, 378 notice of denial, 169
separation from other foods, 58 procedure, 166, 167
wiping cloths, use limitation, 61 qualifications and responsibilities, 166
Animal foods, raw or undercooked
Index-2

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
Applicant, responsibility to report illness, handwashing sink, numbers,
304, 583, 586, 587 capacities, location, and placement,
126, 127, 128
Applicant, responsibility to report illness,
conditional employee, 31, 298 indoor construction materials, 140
Application of Code insect control devices, location, 142
additional requirements preventing inspection order access, 184
health hazards not addressed in
light bulbs, protective shielding, 142
this Code, 162
light intensity by, 145
public health protection, 161
living, sleeping quarters, private home
Approved, definition, 2
use prohibition, 144
Area
of Code, principle vs , subjects,
adjacent to easily movable Preface, xii
equipment, 106, See also definition
outdoor driving surface, 140, 144
of easily movable
outdoor surfaces, 140, 144
behind kick plate, 95
poisonous or toxic materials, storage,
consumer shopping, exception to
154, 159
fixed equipment, elevation and
sealing, and redeeming machine prohibited food storage, 64
location, 107, 135
protected for tank vent, 130
consumer, eating and drinking, 121,
requiring drip-free ventilation, 96
141
separate, for raw foods during
consumers notified to use clean
preparation, holding and display, 58
tableware in self-service, 27
servicing, definition for mobile food
designated for eating, drinking, using
operating base, 18
tobacco products, 44
servicing, outdoors, 144
dining, animals allowed and restricted,
shellstock harvesting, 52
150, 480
storage of refuse, recyclables, or
distressed merchandise, segregation
returnables, 134, 135, 136, 140,
and location, 147
144, 147
dry storage definition, 5
storage, maintenance equipment and
employee dressing rooms, 64, 146,
tools, 149
149
unaffected by imminent health hazard
floor carpeting, restrictions and
need not discontinue operations,
installation, 141
175
food protection, PHS Model Codes
underneath equipment for cleaning,
history, purpose, and authority,
106
Preface, vi
unnecessary persons not allowed in
food establishment, 26
Index-3

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
vending machine location, outside carbonator, device, 127
protection, 22, 98, 143
copper, use limitation, 92
waste servicing for removing mobile
design standard, 126
food establishment wastes, 133
location, 128
Artificial color or flavor, label declaration,
84, 85 operation and maintenance, 128, 129,
131
Assessment of statutory provisions,
recommendation, 180 Backflow prevention, plumbing system
Astaxanthin, color additive, labeling, 85, direct connection prohibited between
422 sewage system and food-contact
equipment drain, 132
Asymptomatic, 295, 330
knowledge of person in charge, 25
definition, 2
when required in water system
hepatitis A diagnosis, food employee
operation, 127
exclusion, reinstatement, 32, 40
Backsiphonage, backflow prevention,
managing exclusions and restrictions,
design standard, 126, 461
33, 34, 35
Bacon, slab, storage, separation,
non-typhoidal Salmonella diagnosis,
packaging, exception, 58
food employee exclusion,
reinstatement, 32, 35 Baffles, internal, for warewashing
machines, 100
norovirus diagnosis, food employee
exclusion, reinstatement, 32, 34, 36 Bags. See Single-service articles and
Single-use articles definitions
Shigella spp. diagnosis, food
employee exclusion, reinstatement, Bait
32, 34
fish, 151
STEC diagnosis, food employee
station, rodent, 157
exclusion, reinstatement, 32, 35
Bakery Products, 86
Typhoid Fever diagnosis, food
Balut, definition, 3
employee exclusion, reinstatement,
32, 39 Bare hand contact with ready-to-eat
food, 55, 364, 366, 590
a (water activity) definition, 3
w ,
Baskets, for warewashing equipment,
Bacillus cereus, 384, 394, 406, 566
100, 115
associated foods/controls, 498
Bearings and gear boxes, leakproof, 98
predicted growth, USDA pathogen
Bed and Breakfast. See Food
modeling program, 411
establishment definition
Backflow prevention device, plumbing
Beef
system
consumer self-service, 65
air gap, 126
cooking requirements, 66, 67, 68, 378
Index-4

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
cooking requirements, oven definition, 3
parameters for cooking, 67
source, 123
cooking requirements, summary chart
Botulism. See Clostridium botulinum
for minimum food temperatures and
holding times, 631, 632 Bowls. See Tableware definition
grinding logs, 264 Bread wrappers. See Single-service
articles and Single-use articles
raw, storage, 58
definitions
reheating for immediate service, 72
Buffets, monitoring by food employees,
roast, cooking requirements, 67, 72, 65
631
Buildings. See Physical facilities
roast, cooking requirements, slow-
Bulk food
cooked roasts-heating deviations
and slow come up time, 380 bulk milk container dispensing tube,
111
served rare, raw, or undercooked,
consumer advisory, 68, 86 consumer self-dispensing, labeling,
65, 85, 86, 419
source, whole-muscle intact steak, 48
display protection, 64
use of clean equipment before use of
different raw animal meat, 112 labeling requirements, 85, 86, 419
use of laundered gloves, 118 liquid, vended waste products, 101
whole-muscle, intact steak, cooking, raw unpackaged animal food, self-
67, 68, 380, 631 service prohibition, 65
whole-muscle, intact, definition, 22 unpackaged, labeling exemptions, 86
Beef, Comminuted. See Comminuted Cabinets
Beverages storage, 102, 105, 121, 131, 150
containers, consumer-owned, refilling, vending machine, 102
63
Calibration, temperature measuring
definition, 3 devices, 111
self-service dispensing equipment, Campylobacter jejuni, 271, 304, 496,
62, 63, 65, 97, 114, 121 498, 517, 566
tubing, separation from stored ice, 98 Can openers
vending machines, liquid waste design and construction on vending
disposal, 101 machines, 98
Birds, dead or trapped, removal, 149 design and construction, cleanable,
95
Boil. See Lesion, containing pus
maintenance and operation, 107
Boiler water additives, criteria, 156
Cans. See Single-service articles
Bottled drinking water
Index-5

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
package integrity for commercially hand antiseptics, 42, 340
processed low acid canned foods,
preservatives, declaration on
52, 361
packaged food labels, 85
Canthaxanthin
sanitization of equipment food-contact
color additive, labeling, 85 surfaces and utensils, 27, 61, 105,
109, 111, 117, 122, 156
salmonid fish color additive, food
labels, 422 sanitizers, criteria, 156, 483
Carbonator, backflow prevention device, warewashing sanitizer, 101, 103, 105,
127 111, 116, 117, 122, 154, 156
Cardboard, for recycling, outside washing fruits and vegetables,
storage, exception, 136 criteria, 59
Carpeting, floor, restrictions and working containers, 61, 153, 373, 481,
installation, 141 552, 617
Carrier, disease, see Asymptomatic Chicken. See Poultry
infected food employee/carrier, 312
labeling guidance for irradiated raw
Carry-out utensils. See Single-service meat, 351
articles
raw, immersion in ice or water, 60
Case lot handling equipment,
Children's menu, 69
moveability, 102, 441
China utensils, lead, 92
Casing, definition, 3
Chlorine solutions, chemical
Cast Iron, utensils and equipment, food-
sanitization, 61, 109, 448, 483
contact surfaces, use limitation, 91
CIP
Catering. See Food establishment
definition cleaned in place, definition, 4
Catsup bottles (or Ketchup bottles). See equipment, design and construction,
Single-use articles 95
Ceramic utensils, lead, 92 ventilation hood systems, filters,
design, 95
Certification number, definition, 3
Civil penalty, hearing officer's powers,
CFR (Code of Federal Regulations),
192
definition, 4
Civil proceedings, petition, penalties,
Cheese
and continuing violations, 196
date marking, 77, 399
Civil remedies. See Administrative
milk products, pasteurized, 52 remedies
Reduced Oxygen Packaging (ROP), Clams. See Molluscan shellfish
84, 415, 498, 564
safe source, 49, 355, 541
Chemicals
served raw or lightly cooked,
drying agents, criteria, 156 consumer advisory, 68, 86
Index-6

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
Cleanability knowledge demonstrated by person in
charge, 25
corrosion-resistant material, definition,
5 ROP HACCP plan procedure, 82
easily cleanable, definition, 5 Cleaning criteria
equipment and utensils, easily employees' hands and arms kept
cleanable, 94, 95 clean as specified, 41
fingernails and area beneath, 43 equipment, food-contact surfaces,
non-food-contact surfaces, and
floor and wall junctures, coved and
utensils maintained clean, 112
enclosed or sealed, 140
linens maintained free from food
floors, 139, 140, 141
residues, soiling matter, 118
food-contact surfaces, 91, 94, 95, 97,
maintenance tools, preventing
112
contamination, 148
mats and duckboards, 141
plumbing fixtures, including
non-food-contact surfaces, 95, 112 handwashing sinks, toilets and
urinals maintained clean, 149
smooth, definition, 19
refuse area and enclosures
studs, joists, rafters, walls and
maintained clean, free of
ceilings, 141
unnecessary items, 136
utility lines, 140
ventilation systems, nuisance and
walls and ceiling, coverings and
discharge prohibition, 148
coatings, 141
Cleaning frequency
Cleanable fixtures, plumbing system,
cooking and baking equipment, 114
126
equipment, food-contact surfaces and
Cleaned in place. See CIP definition
utensils, 112, 114
Cleaners. See Poisonous or toxic
non-food-contact surfaces, 114
materials
physical facilities, frequency and
Cleaning agents
restrictions, 148
effective equipment and supplies for
Cleaning methods
cleaning refuse, waste handling
units, recyclables, and returnables, alternative manual warewashing
135 procedures, 115
handwashing, 144 dry cleaning surfaces, 115
warewashing equipment, 108, 109 dustless floor cleaning, 148
Cleaning agents and sanitizers, equipment and utensils, 112, 115
available to clean equipment and
precleaning equipment and utensils,
utensils, 105
115
Cleaning and sanitizing
Index-7

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
rinsing procedures, washed Cloths
equipment and utensils, 116
single-use disposable sanitizer wipes,
warewashing, loading soiled items, 61
115
use with raw animal foods, 61
wet cleaning, 115
wiping food spills, 61
Cleaning, water reservoir of fogging
Code
devices, 129
adoption, certified copies, xiv
Cleanliness, personal, of employees
applicability, 161
fingernails, 43
conformance with history, role in
hands and arms, 41
frequency of inspections, 172
jewelry prohibition, 44
Code of Federal Regulations. See CFR
outer clothing, 44 definition
Closed hearing, justification, 190 Cold holding of time/temperature control
for safety food
Clostridium botulinum
frozen food, slacking, thawing,
associated foods/controls, 498
cooling, cold holding, 73, 376
cooling hazard, 390, 497
Cold-plate beverage cooling devices,
package integrity (swollen or separation from stored ice, 98
damaged cans) hazard, 353, 361
Color additive
preventing growth controls, reduced
definition, 2
oxygen packaging, 389, 415
labeling, unapproved, 51, 59, 85, 202,
preventing growth, reduced oxygen
359, 422
packaging, 16, 80, 81, 566
Commercially processed food, date
vacuum-packed foods, under-
marking, 76, 399
processed canned foods, 80, 353,
361, 566, 570, 571 Commingle, definition, 4
Clostridium perfringens Comminuted
hot holding hazard, 497 definition, 4
hot holding, cooling, hazard, 404, 498 meats (hamburger), fish cooking
time/temperature, 66, 69, 378, 383
non-continuous cooking raw animal
foods hazard, 384 Commissary. See Servicing area
definition
Clothes washers and dryers
Common name of food, for storage
availability, 104
containers, 58
location for contamination prevention,
Communicable. See Infectious agent
106
Clothing, employee outer wear, clean
condition, 44
Index-8

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
Community or individual facility for approval by hearing officer, 191
disposal of refuse, recyclables, and
request, response to hearing notice,
returnables, 137
188
Compactors, on-site, 134
respondent acceptable as waiver of
Compliance and Enforcement, 161, 179 right to appeal, 194
Compliance and Enforcement Annex Constitutional protection
explanation, 179 judicial review, 181
principle, 180 procedural safeguards, 181
purpose, 179 Construction
recommendation, 180 equipment, single service and single
use articles characteristics, 94
Compliance with Code, responsibilities
of permit holder to retain permit, 169 equipment, utensils, and food contact
surfaces of equipment, materials
Condenser unit, separation from food
for, 91
and food storage space, 98
food establishment plans and
Condiments, protection from
specifications requirement, 163,
contamination, 65
168, 487
Conditional employee
inspection and approval, 166
applicant, food employee interview
mobile water tank and mobile food
form, 583
establishment water tank, 129
applicant, food employee medical
physical facilities, design and
referral form, 587
installation, 140
applicant, illness reporting
physical facilities, materials for, 139
responsibilities, 28, 299
plumbing system, 125
definition, 4
Consumer
PIC responsibility to report employee
illness or diagnosis to regulatory advisory for animal foods served raw
authority, 30, 169, 299 or undercooked, 27, 86, 422
Conditioning device consumer-owned container, refilling,
62
plumbing system design, 126
definition, 4
plumbing system location, 128
expectations for food supply, vii
Confidentiality
food on display, protection from
hearings, 190
contamination, 64
trade secrets, 165
information requirements, 27, 84, 85,
Confirmed disease outbreak, definition, 86, 422
4
self-service operations, protection
Consent agreement from contamination, 65
Index-9

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
self-service, clean tableware for refills, soiled linens/napkins, limitations with
62 food, 61
Contact time, food contact surfaces and soiled tableware/returnables used
utensils, hot water and chemical improperly for consumer refills, 62
sanitization, 117, 455
using ice as a coolant, 60
Containers. See Single-service articles
wiping cloths soiled, improperly
food storage, common name stored, used, or laundered, 61
identification, 58, 369
Contamination of food after receiving,
poisonous or toxic materials, labeling prevention, 55
and identification, 153
Contamination prevention
poisonous or toxic materials, storage,
food storage protected from premises/
presence, 154
miscellaneous sources, 63, 64, 66
poisonous or toxic materials, use of,
location of equipment, clothes
154
washers and dryers, and storage
prohibitions for re-use, 155 cabinets, 105
refilling in consumer self-service, 62 unpackaged food protected during
preparation/service, 64, 65
working with poisonous or toxic
materials, common name Contents
identification, 153
court petition, 194
Contaminated food
Hazard Analysis and Critical Control
disposition, 87 Point (HACCP) plan, 164, 494, 496,
514, 521
preventing employee hand
contamination of food, see also hearing notice, 189
Bare hand contact, 55
required response to hearing notice,
preventing employee repeated use of 188
utensil for tasting food, 57
Control of foodborne disease
prohibited re-service of returned food, transmission by employees,
65 investigation and control, 176, 177
unapproved additives, 59 Controlled atmosphere packaging. See
Reduced Oxygen Packaging
washing raw fruits and vegetables
prior to use/service, 59 Conversion to food establishment, plan
requirements, 164, 256
Contamination of food
Cook-chill packaging. See Reduced
after receiving, separation,
Oxygen Packaging
segregation, and packaging, 57
Cooking
glove use limitations, 61
baluts, time/temperature, 67
improper food contact with soiled
equipment, utensils, 60
Index-10

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
comminuted meats, see Comminuted methods to limit growth or organisms
meat, 66 of public health concern, 75
destroying organisms of public health time/temperature control for safety
concern, 66, 69, 71, 72, 378, 497 food, 74, 75, 390, 394, 548
eggs, raw, time/temperature, 66, 378, Copper and copper alloys, use limitation
631 in food contact and fittings, 92
equipment, cleaning frequency, 108, Core item
112
definition, xiii, 4
mechanically tenderized and injected
violation, time frame for correction,
meats, 66
176
non-continuous of raw animal foods,
Corned beef roasts, minimum holding
69, 384
time for cooking, 67
plant food for hot holding, 69, 383
Correction of priority violations
pork roasts, raw and cured (ham),
time frame, timeliness, 175, 176
time/temperature, 67, 378
verification and documentation, 176
poultry, raw, time/temperature, 66, 67,
631 Correction of violations
ratites, 66, 67 documenting information and
observations, all code violations
raw and undercooked animal food
requiring, 173
service variance, based on HACCP
plan, 69 priority item, or priority foundation
item, time frame, 174, 175, 176
raw animal foods time/temperature,
66, 378 specifying time frame, 174
roast beef and corned beef, whole Corrective action, failure to demonstrate
meat roasts, 67 compliance, 173
stuffed or stuffing with fish, meat, Corrosion-resistant material, definition, 5
pasta, poultry, and ratites/
Cosmetics. See Personal care items,
time/temperature, 67, 631
See Personal care items
summary chart for minimum cooking
Counter guards. See Food display
food temperatures and holding
Counter-mounted equipment
times, 631
cleanability, 106
whole roast meats, 67, 378
clearance space, 107
Cooking utensils. See Kitchenware
definition, 5
Cooling
elevation, 107
capacity, food equipment, 103
Court petition
cold-plate beverage cooling devices,
98 for access, contents of, 194
Index-11

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
injunctive relief, 196 Cutting surfaces
penalties, and continuing violations, materials, 93
196
resurfacing, 107
Criminal proceedings
Data plate, warewashing machine, 96,
authorities, methods, fines, and 108
sentences, 196
Date marking
misdemeanor, 196
exceptions, 76, 399
Critical control points
RTE, time/temperature control for
definition, 5 safety food, 76, 399
flow diagram, 165 RTE, time/temperature control for
safety food disposition, 78, 399
knowledge demonstration by person
in charge, 24 shellstock, 54
monitoring, responsibility of permit Date marking and food disposition,
holder, 169 summary chart, RTE, TCS food, 633
standard operating procedure, 165, Day care family. See Food
256, 496, 556 establishment definition
Critical limit Dealer, definition, 5
definition, 5 Dealer's tag/label molluscan shellstock
requirements, 52
nonconformance, documented in
inspection report, 174 Decision by hearing officer, 191, 192
violations, timely corrections, 175 appointment by regulatory authority
and purpose, 191
Cross connection, water supply system,
prohibition, 128 Deli tissue, use to avoid contaminating
food, suitable utensil for RTE food, 55
Cross contamination of food, protection
from by separation and segregation, Demonstration of knowledge. See
57 Person in charge, Supervision
Crustacea shells, use limitation, 112 Denial of access, sworn statement, 195
Crystal utensils, lead definition, 92 Denial of application for operating
permit, notice, 169
Cultured dairy products, date marking
exemption, 78, 403 Design Standard, backflow prevention
device, 126
Cups. See Tableware definition
Design, construction, and installation of
refilling in consumer self-service, 62
equipment and utensils
Curing, variance specifications, 80
acceptability, 102
Cut leafy greens, definition, 5
accuracy, 96
Cut, infected. See Lesion, containing
cleanability, 94
pus
Index-12

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
durability and strength, 94 Disease or medical condition
functionality, 96 Conditional Employee & Food
Employee Interview Form, 583
Design, construction, and installation of
physical facilities, 140 reporting responsibility, 24, 25, 28, 56,
169, 174, 583, 586, 587
cleanability, 140
Disease outbreaks caused by norovirus,
functionality, 142, 143, 144
Nontyphoidal Salmonella, S. Typhi,
mobile water tank and mobile food Shigella spp., Shiga-toxin producing
establishment water tank, 129, 130 E. coli, and hepatitis A virus, 28, 31,
33, 169, 299
Design, construction, and installation of
plumbing system, 125 Dish basket. See Basket
approved system, cleanable fixtures, Dishes. See Tableware definition
handwashing sink installation,
Dishwashing, see Warewashing, 22
backflow prevention and
conditioning device, 126 Disinfection
Design, construction, and installation of drinking water system, 123, 458
sewage system, 132
mobile water tank and mobile food
Destroying or denaturing food by hold establishment water tank, 131, 466
order, 186
Dispensing equipment, design and
Detergent sanitizers construction for protection of
equipment and food, 97
rinsing procedures, 116
Dispensing tube, bulk milk container,
warewashing equipment, sanitizing
111
step, 111
Display. See Food display
wet cleaning, 115
Disposable, waste receptacle, 135
Detergents. See Cleaning agents
Disposal facilities
Deviations from Code
refuse, recyclables, and returnables,
documentation, 173
133
see modifications, variance, waivers,
sewage, other liquid wastes, and
162
rainwater, 132, 133
Devices. See Physical facilities
Disposal towels, 135
Diarrhea, reportable food employee
Disposition of ready-to-eat,
symptom, 28, 299, 319, 583
time/temperature control for safety
Dipper wells. See Utensils, in-use food, 76, 78, 399, 633
storage and between-use storage
Distressed merchandise, segregation
Disclosure, definition. See also and location, 147
Consumer Advisory
Documentation
Disease of employee, 28, 31, 33, 169,
freezing for parasites, 71, 386
176, 257, 268, 299, 317, 335
Index-13

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
inspection report, 173, 174 cleaning frequency, 108
Reduced Oxygen Packaging (ROP) warewashing, self-draining, 101
not requiring a variance, 81
Drains
timely correction of violation of priority
indirect, 132
item or priority foundation item, 175
liquid waste separation from ice, in ice
variances, 162
machines/bins, 98
verification/correction of violation, 176
mobile sewage holding tank, 132
Dogs in food establishments
plugs for receptacles, waste handling
patrol and sentry, 150 units, 136
pets, in outdoor dining areas, 151 sewage, indirect, backflow prevention,
132, 467
service animals, 150
walk-in refrigerators, direct drain
Dollies. See Case lot handling
exception, 132
equipment
warewashing or culinary sink direct
Donation. See Food donation
drain exception, 132
Doors
Dressing area
equipment maintenance, 107
designation, 146
outer openings, protected, 143
food storage prohibition, 64
outside refuse receptacles and waste
use by employees, 149
handling units for refuse,
recyclables, and returnables, 134 Drinking by employees, food
contamination prevention, 44
pets in common dining areas of group
residences, 150 Drinking water
receptacles for refuse, recyclables, bottled, source, 123
and returnables, 134, 136
definition, 5
toilet room, 142, 149
Drinking water systems
vending machine, 97, 98, 102
approved, 123
Drain plugs for equipment and
flushing and disinfection, 123
receptacles for refuse, recyclables,
and returnables, 136 Drip prevention
Drainage system, food establishment bearings and gear boxes, leakproof,
design, retention and installation, 132 98
Drainage, of equipment compartments, dispensing equipment, protection of
101 equipment and food., 97
Drainboards equipment openings, closures,
deflectors, 96
capacity, 104
cleanability, 94, 95
Index-14

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
ventilation hood systems, design and pasteurized, substitute for shell eggs,
construction of, 96 59
Driving surfaces. See Surface pooling or combining raw eggs before
characteristics, outdoor cooking, 59, 88
Dry cleaning methods, equipment and restricted definition, 17
utensils, 114, 115
served undercooked or raw, 86, 422
Dry eggs, source, 52
service to highly susceptible
Dry milk, source, 52 populations, 88
Dry storage area, definition, 5 temperature on receipt, 51
Drying agents, criteria, 156 Eggs, shell, raw
Drying mops, proper storage after use, cold holding requirements, 76
148
condition on receipt, 51, 360
Drying warewashed equipment and
cooking requirements, 66
utensils, air drying required, 119
cooling, 75, 390
Duckboards, cleanability, 141
labeling, 48
Due process, rights, 181
Elderly. See Highly susceptible
Dustless methods of cleaning floors,
population
148
Emergency occurrence. See Imminent
Duties, person in charge, 26, 292
health hazard
Easily cleanable, definition, 6
Emergency Operating Plan. See
Easily movable, definition, 6 Imminent health hazard
Eating by employees, food Employee
contamination prevention, 44, 57
accommodations, designated areas,
Effective date of code, assessing 147
existing facilities in-use before date,
definition, 7, See also Food employee
161
definition
Eggs
dressing areas, 147, 475
condition on receipt, 51
eating, drinking, and tobacco use,
cooking requirements, 66 designated areas, 44
definition, 6 food contaminated by, disposition, 87
egg product, definition, 7 hair restraint requirements, 45
hard boiled, not Time/temperature for hygiene, 24, 44, 257
safety food definition, 21
illness reporting exclusions and
liquid, frozen, and dry, condition on restrictions, 24, 26, 28, 31, 257,
receipt, 51 295, 298, 299, 583, 586, 587
practices, supervision of, 26
Index-15

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
prevention of food contamination, 55, cleaning frequency, warewashing,
57, 364 108
responsibility to report illness, 24, 26, compartments, drainage, 101
28, 257, 268, 295, 298, 299, 583,
cooling, heating, and holding
586, 587
capacities, 103
serving high-risk populations,
definition, 7
exclusions and restrictions, 317,
See Highly susceptible population, design and construction, durability
exclusion and restriction of ill and strength, 94
employees
existing, 161, 170
Emu. See Ratite definition
fixed, elevation or sealing, installation,
Enclosures for refuse, recyclables and 106
returnables, operation and
hot oil filter accessibility and
maintenance, 134, 135, 136
replacement, 95
Enforcement. See Compliance and
location for contamination prevention,
Enforcement
105
Enforcement proceedings
maintenance, repair and adjustment,
authorities, methods, fines, and 107
sentences, 196
necessary replacement, 170
institution, 195
openings, closures and deflectors,
judicial, 194 design and construction, 96
EPA, U.S. Environmental Protection reassembly after cleaning, 120
Agency, definition, 7
storage of clean equipment, utensils,
Equipment and prohibitions, 120
acceptability, 102 storing maintenance tools, 149
air drying requirement, 119 Equipment and utensils
assessment for Code enforcement, cleaning agents and sanitizers,
161 availability, 105
can opener parts, removable and cleaning frequency, 112
replaceable, 95, 107
dry cleaning methods, 115
case lot handling, 64, 102
durability and strength, 94
certification and classification, 102
precleaning, 115
cleaned, storage prohibition, 120
rinsing after cleaning and sanitizing,
cleaning criteria, 112 122
cleaning frequency, 112 rinsing procedures, 116
cleaning frequency, nonfood-contact sanitization, 116, 117
surfaces, 114
storage, 120
Index-16

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
warewashing procedures for prevention, when responding to clean-
alternative manual warewashing up vomiting and diarrheal events,
equipment, 115 45, 345
Equipment, plans, contents, radiation leakage, microwave ovens
specifications, 164 not meeting safety standards, 107,
446
Equipment, utensils, and linens, 91
reportable history, food employee, 29,
cleaning, cleaning criteria, 112, 114,
30, 298, 583, 586, 587
115, 116, 118, 119
time for sanitizing food-contact
location, 105
surfaces, equipment, utensils, 27,
numbers and capacities, 103, 104, 117, 448
105
Facilities
protection of clean items, 119, 120,
assessment for Code enforcement,
121, 122
161
Escargot. See Fish definition
disposal, recycling, and landfilling of
Escherichia coli, Shiga-toxin producing waste, 137
(STEC). See Shiga-toxin producing
for sewage, other liquid wastes, and
Escherichia coli
rainwater, 133
Evidence at hearing
necessary replacement, 170
documentary, 189, 193
on-premises for refuse, recyclables,
excluded, 193 and returnables, 134, 135, 136, 137
regulatory authority presentation, 193 plans and specifications, submission
and approval, 163
written, 193
FDA, U.S. Food and Drug
Exclude, definition, 7
Administration, definition, 7
Exclusion of employee
Fees
illness symptoms or diagnosis, 31,
civil proceeding, enforcement and
177, 295, 319, 322
collection, 196
removal, 33, 177, 335
civil proceeding, hearing officer's
Exclusion order, for infected or diseased
powers, 191, 192
employee, 177
operating permit, issuance criteria,
Expiration, date, permit, 166
167
Exposure
permit renewal, 169
history of, absent symptoms or
Fever with sore throat, employee
diagnosis in facility serving HSP
symptom, 28, 33, 38, 319, 322
(highly susceptible population), 30,
Filter, compressed air, for drinking water
32, 33, 34, 35, 39, 332
system, 131
infected food employee, 28, 31, 33,
268, 298, 583, 586, 587
Index-17

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
Filtering equipment, hot oil, design and Fixtures. See Physical facilities
construction, 95 definition
Final order, rendering by hearing officer, Flatware. See Tableware definition
192
Floor drains
Fines
backflow prevention, 132, 467
civil proceeding, 196
cleanability, 140
criminal proceeding, 196
connection to sanitary sewer, 133,
Fingernails 468
artificial, prohibition, 43 Floor-mounted equipment, clearance,
106
maintenance by employees, 43, 56
Floors
First aid supplies in food
establishments, storage, 158 absorbent materials, use limitation,
149
Fish
dustless cleaning methods, 148
bait, live or dead, storage, 151
floor coverings, cleanability, 141
consumer self-service, 65
Flow pressure valve, warewashing
cooking requirements, 66, 69, 631
machine, 101
definition, 7
Flushing
frozen by supplier, freezing records,
drinking water system, 123
48, 71
mobile water tank and mobile food
immersion in ice or water, 60
establishment water tank, 131
lightly cooked or raw, aquacultured,
waste retention tanks, 133
exemption, 71, 72, 82, 86
Flux, use limitation for Food-contact
lightly cooked or raw, consumer
surfaces, 92
advisory, 86
Fogging devices, cleaning the water
other than molluscan shellfish, 48, 49,
reservoir, 128
71
Food
raw, storage, 57, 60
additive, 43, 51, 52, 59, 80, 85, 156,
recreationally caught, 49, 354
207, 359, 369
reduced oxygen packaging (ROP),
additive, color, 59, 85, 202, 359
74, 82, 389, 418
additive, definition, 2
use of clean equipment, 112, 452
characteristics, condition, safe,
use of laundered gloves, 118
unadulterated, and honestly
Fitting or tubing, copper and copper presented, 47
alloys
contact with equipment and utensils,
use limitation, 92 60
Index-18

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
contact with linens and napkins, 60, ready-to-eat, time/temperature control
61 for safety, on-premises preparation,
date marking, 76, 399, 633
contact with water or ice, storage or
display, 60 releasing from hold order, 186
contact with wiping cloths, 61 removal, justification, 185
contaminated, 87 restrictions on using or moving under
hold order, 185
cooked, raw animal food, 66
specialized preparation methods,
cooked, TCS food, cooling, 74, 75
variance requirement, 69, 80, 81,
damaged, spoiled, or recalled, 99, 162, 164, 262, 412, 494
storage, 58, 147
storage, 63
definition, 7
temperature and time control, limiting
destroying or denaturing, 186 growth of organisms of public
health concern, 73
destruction of organisms of public
health concern, 66 time/temperature control for safety,
guidance, 280, 286, 287
establishment, application for permit,
166, 167 time/temperature control for safety,
HACCP plan, 164, 494, 496, 514,
examining, sampling and testing, 186
521, 522, 523
frozen, storing, slacking, thawing, 73
time/temperature control for safety,
hermitically sealed, source, 48
hot and cold holding, 75, 394
honest presentation, 1, 85, 161
time/temperature control for safety,
identity, presentation, and on- preparation, temperature at receipt,
premises labeling, 47, 84, 85, 86 51
labeling, 47, 85, 86, 419 time/temperature control for safety,
time as public health control, 78,
limitation of growth of organisms of
404
public health concern, 73
vended, time/temperature control for
official tagging, 185
safety food, original container, 64
packaged and unpackaged,
Food Allergen Labeling and Consumer
separation, packaging and
Protection Act of 2004, 420
segregation, 57
food allergen, major, definition, 11
packaged, labeling, 47, 84, 85, 86
Food allergy, awareness, 25, 28
protection from contamination, 55
Food bank. See Food establishment
ready-to-eat, time/temperature control
definition
for safety, commercially processed
food, date marking, 76, 399, 633 Food cart, Mobile Food Establishment
Matrix, 634
ready-to-eat, time/temperature control
for safety, disposition, 76, 633 Food Code
Index-19

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
conventions, xi, xiii plans and specifications for
construction, conversion, or
improvements, modifications in this
remodeling, 163, 168, 487
edition, viii
temporary, inspection frequency, 171
intent, 1
Food guards. See Food display
interventions, v
Food management plans, 163, 164
previous editions, iii, vi
Food package integrity, 52
revision process, xiv
Food processing plant, definition, 9
safeguards, vii
Food processing, variance required, 80
scope, statement, 1
Food protection manager certification, 2,
standards, vii, 1
24, 26, 290
title, 1
Food reheated in microwave oven,
Food containers, placement in cooling requirements, 72
or cold holding equipment, 75
Food safety
Food contamination
control measures, HACCP plan, 164
by persons, discarding, 87
intent of Food Code, 1
by unclean utensils and equipment,
purpose of Food Code, vi, 1
60
Food service establishments. See Food
prevention by employees, 44, 55, 57
establishment
protection after receiving, 55
Food sources
Food defense, guidance, 273
compliance with food law, 47, 48, 49,
Food display, preventing contamination 348
by consumers, 64
original containers and records,
Food donation, 55, 266, 364 molluscan shellfish, shellstock, 53,
54
Food employee
Food specific container for refilling
definition, 8
returnables, 62, 63
responsibility to report illness, 28,
Food specifications for receiving
268, 298, 583
eggs, 51, 52
Food establishment
ice, 52
definition, 8
Molluscan shellfish, 52
identity information, 167, 173
package integrity, 52
inspection, frequency, 171, 172
temperature, 51, 359
permit to operate, 166, 167, 168, 169,
170 Food storage
containers, identification of food, 58
Index-20

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
preventing contamination from design and construction, cleanability,
premises, 63, 64 94, 95
prohibited areas, 64 galvanized metal equipment, use
limitation, 92
Food supply, public health concerns, vii
lead, use limitation, 92
Food temperature measuring devices
linens and napkins, use limitation, 61
accessability, 104
lubricating, 120
calibration, 111
sanitization criteria, 116
design and construction, 94
sanitization frequency, 117
Food vending location/areas
sanitization methods, 82, 117
outdoor, overhead protection, 143
wet cleaning equipment and utensils,
see Food establishment, 8
115
Food volume, proposed, plans, 164
wood, use limitation, 92
Foodborne disease
Foot candles. See Lighting
outbreak, definition, 7
Forklifts. See Case lot handling
prevention, knowledge, 24 equipment
prevention, plans, 487 Forks. See Tableware definition
Foodborne illness Form of request for hearing, 187, 188
frequency of inspections, 171 Freezing to destroy organisms of public
health concern, 71, 386, 387
nature and extent, v
Frog. See Fish definition
preventing transmission by
employees, 176, 177, 257, 295 Frozen food
Foodborne Illness Risk Factors, 261, condition at receipt, 51
491, 527
limiting growth of organisms of public
Food-contact surface health concern, slacking, thawing,
71, 73
"V" threads, use limitation, 95
maintain frozen, 73
cast iron equipment, use limitation, 91
shipped frozen, received frozen, 51
cleanability, see cleanability, food-
contact surfaces, 94 Fruits, raw plant food
cleaning frequency of equipment, 112 cooking, 69
cleaning objective, 112 preventing contamination after
receiving, 57
construction materials, 91
sulfite restriction, 59
copper, use limitation, 92
washing, 59, 156
definition, 8
Index-21

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
whole or cut, immersion in ice or compliance, responsibility of permit
water, 60 holder, 169
whole, uncut, storage, 58, 93 conformance, maintaining and
providing records, 162
Galvanized metal, use limitation, 92
contents, 164, 494, 496, 514, 521,
Game animal
522
commercially raised for food, 49
criteria, reduced oxygen packaging,
cooking requirements, 66 84
definition, 9 definition, 10
exotic species, 50 demonstration of knowledge by
person in charge, 25
limitations as food source, 49
determining critical control points, 508
wild, field-dressed, limitations as food
source, 50 nonconformance, critical limits,
documented on inspection report
Garbage. See Refuse, recyclables, and
form, 174
returnables
nonconformance, frequency of
Gastrointestinal illness, symptoms of
inspections, 172
employee, 28, 56, 295, 299, 319, 583,
586, 587 principles, 256, 494, 496
Gear box and bearings, leakproof. See supporting documents, 256
Bearings and Gear Boxes, leakproof
variances, 80, 164, 494, 552
General use pesticide, definition, 9
Hair restraints for employees, 45
Glasses, refilling in consumer self-
Hamburger. See Comminuted definition
service, 62, 63
cooking, 66, 378
Gloves
Hand antiseptics, 42, 57, 340
cloth, laundering frequency, 118
Hand drying
donning, 42
cleaning procedure, 41, 337
single-use, 28, 55, 61, 374
provisions, provided, 145
slash resistant, 62
Handling
Grade A standards, definition, 10
kitchenware and tableware,
Grease traps, 132
preventing contamination, 121
Ground beef. See Comminuted
single-service and single-use articles,
definition
preventing contamination, 121
Ground beef, cooking. See Comminuted
Hands, employees
meats (hamburger), fish, cooking
alternative procedure to no bare hand
Guard dog. See Service animal
contact, 55, 364, 590
HACCP plan
clean condition, 41
Index-22

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
cleaning procedure, 41, 337 resumption of operations, regulatory
approval, 175
hand antiseptics, 42
summary suspension of operations,
when to wash, 42
175
where to wash, 42
Health practitioner
Handwashing
definition, 10
cleanser availability, 144
Medical referral form for ill employee,
food employees, 41, 42, 55 587
procedures, special, for employees, reportable diagnoses and past
reserved, 41, 339 illnesses, 29, 30, 587
signage, 145 Health status of employee
Handwashing sink failure of PIC and employee to report
a disease or medical condition, 28,
automatic, 41
173
cleanability, 126
required reporting, 28, 30
cleaning frequency, 149
Hearing
definition, 10
commencement, 190
design and construction, 126
documentary evidence, 193
location and placement, 127, 147
evidence excluded, 193
maintained, easily accessible, 128
in accordance with law, 189
numbers and capacities, 126, 144,
provided upon request, 188
462
record of proceeding, 190
prohibition, any other purpose, 128,
148 regulatory authority evidence, 193
use required, 41, 42 request, 187, 188
water temperature, 126, 461 rights of parties to, 193
Harvester's tag/label, requirements, 52 settlement, 194
Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point. testimony under oath, 193
See HACCP plan
timeliness, 189
Hazard, definition, 10
warning not required, 185
Health hazard, imminent
Hearing notice
definition, 10
contents, 189
discontinuance of operations and
response, 188
reporting requirement, 175
Hearing officer
prevention, 162, 175
appointment, 191
Index-23

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
consent agreement, approval, 191 responsibility of person in charge,
notify regulatory authority, 30
jurisdiction, 193
responsibility of person in charge,
powers, 191
prohibit conditional employee, 30
purpose, 191
restriction, removal of, 39
qualifications, 191
Hermetically sealed container
Hearing procedure
cleaning before opening, 58
commencement on notification, 190
definition, 10
confidential, 190
food, source, 48
expeditious and impartial, 190
reheating for hot holding, 72
record, 190
Highly susceptible population
Heat lamp, shield, 142
additional safeguards, pasteurized
Heater, for manual warewashing foods, prohibited food and re-
equipment, 100 service, 88
Heating capacity, food equipment, 103 consumer advisory, 86, 422
Hepatitis A virus, 583 definition, 10
cause of disease outbreak, reportable exclusions and restrictions of ill
history of exposure, 29, 295, 583, employees, 31, 33, 317, 319, 320,
586, 587 321
cause of employee illness, 29, 30, 31, frequency of inspection, 172
257, 312
permit application contents, 167
exclusion, removal of, 36
High-risk population. See Highly
exclusions and restrictions, conditions susceptible population
for, 31, 33
History, PHS model codes, vi
reportable diagnoses, 28, 29, 30, 169,
Hold order
299, 323, 326, 330, 332, 335
contents, 185
reporting of health and activities, 28,
169 examining, sampling, and testing
food, 186
responsibility of employee, reporting
compliance with restriction or justifying conditions, 184
exclusion, 31
notice, 182
responsibility of permit holder, report
official tagging of food, 185
food employee or conditional
employee, 28, 29, 30, 169 releasing food from, 186
responsibility of person in charge, removal of food, 184, 186
exclude or restrict, 30, 31, 33
removal of official tag, 186
Index-24

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
restrictions on using or moving food, exterior coolant, prohibited as
182, 185 ingredient, 60
warning or hearing not required, 185 source, 52, 361
Holding capacity, food equipment, 103 storage or display of food in contact
with, 60, 372
Holding tank. See Sewage holding tank
units, separation of drains, 98
Hollowware. See Tableware, definition,
See also Kitchenware Identity standards for food, 84
Homes and living/sleeping quarters, use Illness of employee, investigation, 176
prohibition, 26, 144
Illness prevention, intent of Food Code,
Honest presentation, vii, 1 1
Hood. See Ventilation systems Imminent health hazard
Hooks, slab bacon, 57 ceasing operations and reporting, 175
Hot holding definition, 10
plant food, 69 emergency operating plan, 175
reheating, 72 resumption of operations, 175
time/temperature control for safety Immunocompromised persons. See
food, 75, 398 Highly susceptible population
Hot water In place, cleaning. See CIP
quantity and availability, 124 Incinerators for solid waste, 137
sanitization of equipment food-contact Indoor areas, materials for construction
surfaces and utensils, 109, 117, and repair, 139
447, 448, 455
Infection, employee, symptom, 28, 30,
warewashing operations, manual, 31, 169, 257, 295, 583, 586, 587
100, 108, 109, 117
Infectious agent, employee freedom
warewashing operations, mechanical, from
109, 117
removal of restriction, 33, 295, 317,
wet cleaning of equipment food- 322, 323, 326, 330, 332, 335
contact surfaces and utensils, 115
Ingredients, HACCP plan, 164
Hygienic practices of employees
Injected, definition, 10
food contamination prevention, 44, 45
Injunction, court petition, 196
hair restraints, 45
Insect control. See also Pest control
handling animals prohibition, 45
devices, design and installation, 142
Ice
food establishments, poisonous or
cooling method, 75 toxic materials, 154, 155
dispensing equipment, 97
Index-25

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
maintenance, premises free of live Intact meat, definition, 11
and dead insects, harborage
Interaction of a and pH values. See
w
conditions, litter, 149, 150
Time/temperature Control for Safety
outer openings, protected, 143 Food
Insects, dead or trapped, removal, 149 Interstate Certified Shellfish Shippers
List, sources of molluscan shellfish,
In-Shell product, definition, 11
49, 541
Inspection and cleaning port, mobile
Intestinal illness of employee, 28, 56,
water tank, 130
295, 583, 586, 587
Inspection frequency
Iodine solutions, chemical sanitization,
establishing, 171, 172 110
performance- and risk-based, 172 Irreversible registering temperature
indicator
Inspection order
provided onsite, 105
access to premises and records, 172,
173, 184, 194 utensil surface temperature, 105, 117,
444, 455
contents, 173, 184, 194, 195
Jars. See Single-use articles
Inspection report
Jaundiced employee
acknowledgement of receipt, 174
exclusions and restrictions, 31, 317,
confidentiality of trade secrets, 165
319, 322, 323
corrective action timeframe, 174
removal of exclusions and restrictions,
documentation, 173, 184
36
form, 596
symptom, reportable, 28, 30, 298,
form instructions, 599 583, 586
issuance, 174 Jewelry
public information, 175, 488 medical alert, 44
refusal to sign acknowledgement, 174 prohibition, 44
Inspection, preoperational, 166, 168, Judicial
487
enforcement proceedings, initiating,
Inspection, risk-based, 527 195
Installation inspection orders, 194
fixed equipment, 106 remedies, 194, 195, 196
plumbing system, 126 review, 181
Institutional food service. See Food Juice
establishment, See also Highly
definition, 11
susceptible population
Index-26

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
packaged in food establishment, 73, juice warning label, 73
427
major food allergen, 85, 277, 420,
prohibition of copper or copper alloys 496, 503, 514
(i.e. brass), in contact with, 92
molluscan shellstock requirements,
service to highly susceptible 52, 53, 54
populations, 88, 427
packaged food, 47
treated/treating, 53, 73
personal care items, 153, 158
warning label, 73, 348, 349
poisonous or toxic materials, 153
Junctures, floor and wall
reduced oxygen packaging without a
cleanability, 140 variance, 81
coved and enclosed or sealed, 140 requirements. See Compliance with
food law
Jurisdiction of hearing officer
Lamb. See Meat
powers, administration of hearings,
191 Landfills for solid waste, 137
powers, administrative remedies, 192 Latex gloves, 233, 374
Justification, variances, documentation, Laundering linens
162
frequency, 118
Ketchup bottles. See Condiment
methods, 118
protection
Laundry facilities, use limitations, 119
Kick plates, design and construction, 95
Lavatories. See Handwashing facilities
Kitchenware
Law, definition, 11
definition, 11
Layout, proposed plans, 164
handling, 93, 103, 121
Lead, use limitation in ceramic, china,
Knives. See Tableware definition
crystal, and decorative utensils, 92
Label, common name on food container,
Leafy greens, cut, 5, 16, 20
58, 85
Lesion, containing pus, 29, 33, 39
Labeling
Light bulbs, protective shielding, 142
compliance with law, food, 84, 85, 86
Lighting, intensity, 145
eggs not treated to destroy all
Salmonellae, 48 Linens
first aid supplies, 153, 158 definition, 11
food identity, presentation and on- laundering frequency, 456
premises, 84
laundering methods, 118
food labels, 85
mechanical washing methods, 118,
identification, 153 443, 456
Index-27

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
soiled, storage methods, 118 location, 147
storage after cleaning, 120, 457 using, 146, 149, 479
storage prohibitions, 120, 457 Lubricants, incidental food contact, 157
Linens and napkins, 61 Lubricating food-contact surface, 120,
457
Liquid eggs. See Egg products
Maintenance
Liquid food or ice, dispensing
equipment, 97 equipment storage, 149, 479
Liquid food vending machines, 101 equipment, operation, 107
Liquid waste. See also Sewage refuse areas and enclosures, 134,
136
capacity and drainage, mobile holding
tank, 132, 467 tools, cleaning, 148
disposal facilities, 133 Major food allergen, definition, 11
drain lines, design and construction, Management and personnel
132
employee health, 28, 44, 45, 256,
drain lines, design and construction, 257, 295, 581
ice units, 98, 437
hygienic practices, 44
flushing waste retention tank, 133
personal cleanliness, 40, 41, 43, 44
other than sewage, disposal facility,
supervision, 23
133, 469
Manager certification, 26
products from vending machines, 101,
441 Manager certification, national
recognition, 26
service sink availability, 146, 476
Manual warewashing. See
Liquid waste, see also Sewage, 133
Warewashing
Listeria monocytogenes
Manufacturer cooking instructions, 70
associated foods/controls, 498
Manufacturer’s dating information
control growth of, for ROP, 16, 81
manufacturer’s use-by dates, 76, 77,
disposition of ready-to-eat, 399
time/temperature control for safety
no concealment or alteration, 86
food, 399
Materials. See also Physical Facilities
risk assessment, 399
construction and repair, indoor
Litter, 150, 479
surface characteristics, 139
Loading soiled items, 115
construction and repair, outdoor
Location, grease trap, 132 surface characteristics, 140
Lockers mobile water tank and mobile food
establishment water tank, 129
designation, 146, 475
Index-28

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
Mats, floor,cleanability, 141 mg/L, definition, 12
Meal portions, individual, from bulk Microwave ovens
container, 77
cleaning frequency, 114
Meat
cooking, 69, 383
cooking requirements, 66, 631, 632
reheating food, requirements, 72
cured pork roasts, cooking
safety standards, 107, 446
time/temperature, 67
Milk and milk products
definition, 11
cooling, 52
raw or undercooked, consumer
advisory, 86 dispensing tube, 111
raw, excluded consumer self-service, pasteurized at receipt, fluid, dry, and
65 frozen products, 52
raw, storage, 57, 58 sources, 48
salt-cured, shelf-stable, date marking temperature at receipt, 51
exception, 78
Mixing valve, handwashing sink, 126,
use of clean equipment, 112, 114 461
use of laundered gloves, 118 Mobile food establishment
Mechanical warewashing. See alternative water supply, 125
Warewashing
application for permit, 166
Mechanically tenderized
sewage holding tank, capacity and
cooking time/temperature, 66, 631 drainage, 132
definition, 11 waste removal, 133
Medical condition of employee. See Mobile water tank and mobile food
Disease or medical condition, Disease establishment water tank
of employee, and Employee, illness
approved materials, 129, 465
reporting exclusions and restrictions
design and construction, 130, 465
confidentiality in hearings, 190
flushing and sanitization, 131, 466
Medicines in food establishments. See
inlet and outlet, 130, 466
Personal care items and First aid
supplies in food establishments materials, 129
restriction and storage, 158, 486 numbers and capacities, 131, 466
Melons, cut. See Time/temperature operations and maintenance, 131
control for safety food definition
Model codes, advantages, vii
Menu items, consumer advisory, 86,
Modifications. See Variance
422
code application, 162
Meringue, 59, 88, 369, 427
Index-29

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
Modified atmosphere packaging. See Mussels. See Molluscan shellfish
Reduced Oxygen Packaging
Napkins. See also Linens
Molluscan shellfish
cloth, laundering frequency, 118
commingled, 53
National Shellfish Sanitation Program
cooling after receipt, 75
Guide for the Control of Molluscan
definition, 12 Shellfish, 49, 272, 348
definition, dealer, 5 mulluscan shellfish, source
identification, 52
definition, in-shell product, 11
Nitrates and nitrites for curing, variance
definition, shellstock, 18
specifications, 80, 505, 574
definition, shucked shellfish, 19
Noncomformance
maintaining identification, 54
critical limits of HACCP plan, 174
packaging and identification, 52
documenting findings by regulatory
prohibition, removing from original authority, 173
container, 53
Non-continuous cooking
recreationally caught, prohibition, 49
criteria, 69, 384
shellstock and in-shell display,
definition, 12
labeling, 53
Nondrinking water, 124, 251, 459
shellstock, condition on receipt, 52
Nonfood-contact surfaces
shucked, display, labeling, 53, 54
cleaning criteria, 112
sources, 49, 355
cleaning frequency, 114
tanks, display, 80
construction materials, characteristics,
tanks, use limitations, 98
93
temperature at receipt, 51
design and construction, 95
undercooked or raw, 86, 88
Nontyphoidal Salmonella (NTS), 295
Mollusk. See Fish definition
cause of disease outbreak and
Mollusk shells, use limitation, 112 employee illness, person in charge
knowledge and duties, 24, 28
Mops, drying, 148
employee illness, 28, 29, 31, 169,
Mouthwash. See Personal Care Items
257, 299, 317, 319, 322, 587
Moveable, see Easily movable
exclusions and restrictions, conditions
definition, 6
for symptomatic, 31
Multiuse utensils and food-contact
exclusions, removal of, 36
surfaces, construction materials,
characteristics, 91 reinstatement, 33, 38, 299, 317, 587
Mushrooms, cultivated wild species, 49
Index-30

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
reporting of health and activities, 29, restriction, removal of, 39
30
Notice of denial of application for
reporting responsibility of employee, operating permit, 169
31, 174
Notices, 182, See also Hearing notice
reporting responsibility of person in
Nutrition labeling, 85
charge, notify regulatory authority,
30 Nuts in shell
responsibility of employee, storage, 93
compliance with restriction or
storage exception, 58
exclusion, 32
storage, exception, 57
responsibility of person in charge,
Oath, hearing testimony under, 193
exclude or restrict, 30
Odors
responsibility of person in charge,
prohibit conditional employee, 30 mechanical ventilation, 146
restriction, removal of, 39 multiuse equipment materials, 91
Norovirus refuse removal frequency, 137
cause of disease outbreak and single-service/use article materials, 93
employee illness, person in charge
Off-premises
knowledge and duties, 24, 28
cleaning services for refuse,
employee illness, 28, 29, 31, 169, 581
recyclables and returnables,
exclusions and restrictions, conditions exception, 135
for, 32
delivery and consumption of
exclusions, removal of, 36 time/temperature control for safety
food, application for permit, 167
reinstatement, 24, 36, 299, 317, 587
Oil equipment
reporting of health and activities, 29,
30 "V" threads, use limitation, 95
reporting responsibility of employee, hot oil filtering equipment, 95
29, 31, 174
On-site cleaning of returnables, refilling,
reporting responsibility of person in 62
charge, notify regulatory authority,
Openings, to outdoors, protection
30, 174
against insects and rodents, 143, 472
responsibility of employee,
Operations
compliance with restriction or
exclusion, 31 resumption after suspension, 175
responsibility of person in charge, suspension for imminent health
exclude or restrict, 30, 32 hazard, 175
responsibility of person in charge, Operations and maintenance
prohibit conditional employee, 30
Index-31

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
mobile water tank and mobile food microwave, 69, 72, 73, 74, 107, 114
establishment water tank, 131
Overhead protection, outdoor food
physical facilities, 148 vending and outdoor servicing areas,
143, 144
plumbing system, 129
Overwraps, colored, for food, limitations,
sewage system, 133
85
Optional contents of inspection order,
Ownership change, operating permit,
195
169
Order
Oysters. See also Molluscan shellfish
failure to comply, 183
undercooked or raw, consumer
hearing officer, 191 advisory, 87, 422
modifying, rescinding or vacation Package integrity, 52
hearing officer's powers, 191
Packaged definition, 12
Organisms of public health concern
Packaged food
destruction, 66, 69, 71, 72, 73, 378,
labels in compliance with law, 85
386, 388, 631, 632
prevention from environmental
growth limitation, 73, 74, 75, 76, 78,
contamination, 63
80, 81, 389, 412, 415
raw fruit and vegetable separation
Ostrich. See Ratite definition
and segregation, 57
Outdoor areas, surface characteristics,
separation and segregation from
140
unpackaged, raw animal food, 57
Outdoor cooking establishments,
Packaging and identification of shucked
guidelines for permanent facilities,
molluscan shellfish, 52, 53, 54, 362
257
Packaging, reduced oxygen conditions
Outdoor refuse areas, curbed and
(ROP). See Reduced Oxygen
graded to drain, 144
Packaging (ROP) definition
Outdoor walking and driving surfaces,
HACCP plan and variance criteria, 80,
graded to, 144, 473
81
Outside receptacles for refuse,
not requiring a variance, 81, 415
recyclables, and returnables. See also
Receptacles for refuse, recyclables, requiring a variance, 80, 413, 564
and returnables
Pallets. See Case lot handling
design and construction, 134 equipment
Outside storage of refuse, recyclables, Parasite destruction in fish by freezing,
and returnables, prohibitions, 136 71, 386
Oven Parts per million. See mg/L definition
cooking temperatures, 66, 378, 631,
632
Index-32

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
Pasteurized Milk Ordinance, 208, 221, reinstatement, 187
226, See Grade A Standards,
warning or hearing not required, 186
definition
Person in charge
Patrol dogs, 45, 150
assignment, 23
Penalties
definition, 12
assessment and order of civil, 192
demonstration of knowledge, 24, 173,
enforcement and collection, 196
541
Performance, standards, federal, viii
duties, 26
Performance-based, frequency of
employee responsibility to report
inspection, 172
illness, 25, 28
Permanent outdoor cooking
responsibilities, rights and authorities,
establishments, guidance, 257
explanation, 23
Permit
responsibility to report certain
definition, 12 employee illnesses, 28, 30, 256,
257, 295, 583, 586, 587
denial, 169
Person, definition, 12
not transferable, 170
Personal care items
renewal, existing food establishment,
169 definition, 13
retention conditions, 169 first aid supplies, storage, 158
suspending, revoking, modifying, or in food establishments, storage, 158
imposing reasonable restrictions,
labeling and identification, 153
hearing officer's powers, 192
medicines, refrigerated in day care
to operate food establishment, 166,
centers, 158
168, 169
medicines, restriction and storage,
Permit holder
158
agreement, replacement of facilities or
operational supplies and applications,
equipment, 170
154
definition, 12
personal cleanliness, 40
post permit, conspicuous to
stock and retail sale, 159
consumers, 169
Personal medications. See Medicines
responsibilities for permit retention,
169 Personnel, supervision, 23
Permit suspension Pest control. See Insect control, See
also Rodent control
conditions warranting, 186
outer openings, protected, 143
contents of notice, 186
reinspection time frame, 187
Index-33

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
Pesticides. See also Poisonous or toxic handwashing sinks, maintaining and
materials using, 144
application, 155 location and placement, 146
restricted use conditions of use, 155, maintaining premises, 150
482
maintenance and operation, 148
restricted use criteria, 157, 255
maintenance tools, preventing
rodent bait stations, 157 contamination, 148
tracking powders, 157 materials for construction and repair,
139
Pests, dead or trapped, removal, 149
minimizing attractants and
Petitions
contaminants on floors, 148, 478
civil proceedings, 196
numbers and capacities, 144
enforcement, 195
pests, controlling, 143, 149
injunction, 196
pests, dead or trapped, removal, 149
Pets in group residence, dining areas,
prohibiting animals, 150
restrictions, 150
repairing, 148
Pewter, use limitation for Food-contact
surfaces, 92 storage of maintenance tools, 149
pH toilet room doors, closing, 149, 479
chemical sanitization, warewashing ventilation systems, nuisance and
equipment, 109, 117 discharge prohibition, 148
definition, 13 Pickle barrels. See Single-use articles
PHS model codes Pinning. See Mechanically Tenderized
authority, Preface, vii Plans and specifications for food
establishments
history, purpose and authority,
Preface, vi facility and operating, requirement,
163
Physical facilities
issuance criteria for operating permit,
cleanability, 140
168, 169
cleaning frequency, 148
Plastic tubs. See Single-use articles
definition, 13
Plates. See Tableware, definition
design, construction, and installation,
Plumbing fixture, definition, 13
140
Plumbing system
dressing rooms and lockers, 146, 149
air gap, 126
drying mops, 148
backflow prevention, 25, 92, 126, 127,
floor cleaning, dustless methods, 148
128, 132, 431, 461, 464, 467
Index-34

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
conditioning device, design, 126 Pork. See Meat, See also Cooking pork
roasts
definition, 13
Portable. See Easily moveable
design, construction, and installation,
126 Potable water. See Drinking water
device, water system, inspection and Poultry
service, 128
consumer self service, 65
handwashing sink design and
cooking requirements, 66, 378, 631
construction, 126
definition, 14
installation, 126
rare or raw or undercooked,
location and placement, 127
consumer advisory, 86
materials, 125
raw, storage, 57
numbers and capacities, 126
use of clean equipment, 57, 112
operation and maintenance, 128
use of laundered gloves, 118
Poisonous or toxic materials
Powers of hearing officers, 191, 192
bait stations, rodent, 157
Precleaning, equipment and utensils,
boiler water additives, criteria, 156 115
chemical sanitizers, criteria, 156 Premises. See also Physical facilities
chemicals for washing fruits and definition, 14
vegetables, criteria, 156
gaining access, 184
conditions of use in food
maintenance, 150
establishments, 155
Presentation of food, 84
containers, prohibition for food use,
155 Preset tableware, handling, 121
definition, 13 Pressure spray, washing, 103, 115
drying agents, criteria, 156 Pressure, water, 124
knowledge, by person in charge, 25 Primal cut
lubricants, incidental food contact, definition, 14
criteria, 157
storage on hooks or racks, 58
pesticides, restricted use, 157
Priority foundation item, definition, 15
restriction of presence and use in food
Priority item, definition, 14
establishments, 154
Private home
storage, separation, 154
food operations prohibited, 26, 144
tracking powders, see also Pesticides
unapproved food source, 47
in food establishments, 157
Probationary period, hearing officer's
powers, 192
Index-35

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
Probe-type price and identification tags cooking, 612
see Utensils, definition, 22 definition, 15
Proceedings, judicial, instituting, 195 Raw animal foods, non-continuous
cooking, 69
Processing, specialized, 80, 81, 412,
415 Ready-to-eat food
Produce. See Fruits, raw plant food, consumer self-service, utensils and
See also Vegetables, raw dispensers, 65
Proper service of notice, 182 definition, 15
Prosthetic device, cleaning, 41 time/temperature control for safety
food, date marking, 76, 633
Public health protection
time/temperature control for safety
Code application, 161
food, date marking, disposition, 77,
purpose of Food Code, Preface, vi 399
Public Health Reasons/Administrative Reassembly of equipment after
Guidelines, 277 cleaning, 120
Public information, inspection reports, Receptacles for refuse, recyclables, and
175 returnables
Public sewage treatment plant, disposal capacity and availability, 135
through approved facility, 133
cleaning, maintenance, 135, 136
Public water system, definition, 15
covering, 136
Pushcart. See Food establishment,
design and construction, 134
definition, mobile
drain plugs, 136
Quaternary ammonium compound,
chemical sanitization, 110 location, equipment and storage, 134,
135, 136
Racks
outside receptacles, design and
case lot handling, 102
construction, 134
meat storage, 58
prohibited in vending machines, 134
warewashing, 101, 104, 108, 109, 115
removal, 137
Rainwater. See also Sewage
Records
disposal facility, 133
availability, responsibility of permit
Rapid holder, 169
cooling time/temperature control for failure to provide, 174, 194
safety food, 27, 75
fish, freezing, 48, 71, 348, 387
reheating, 72
HACCP plan, contents, 163, 164, 513
Ratite. See also Game animal and
HACCP plan, demonstrate
Poultry definitions
conformance, 165
Index-36

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
hearing proceeding, 190 Refuse, recyclables, and returnables,
133
molluscan shellfish, 52, 53, 54
cleaning implements and supplies,
plans, standard operating procedures,
135
163, 165, 166, 558
cleaning receptacles, 136
regulatory authority allowed access
for inspection, 172 facilities for disposal and recycling,
137
water system service schedule, 128
facilities on the premises, 134
Recyclables. See Refuse, recyclables,
and returnables indoor storage area, design, 134
Recycling facilities, 137 location, 135, 147
Redeeming machines, location, 135 outdoor storage surface, design and
construction, 134
Reduced oxygen packaging
removal, 137
conditions requiring a variance, 80
storage area, operation and
definition, 16
maintenance, 136
HACCP only, conditions not requiring
storage areas, rooms, and
a variance, 81, 164
receptacles, capacity and
HACCP plan, not required, 84 availability, 135
thawing ROP frozen fish, 74, 389 storage, outdoor enclosure,
construction, 134
References, 199
storage, outside, prohibitions, 136
Refilling
toilet room receptacle, covered, 135
clean tableware, 62
Regulatory authority
returnables, 62
definition, 17
Refrigeration, cooling and cold holding,
75, 390, 394 responsibilities for permit issuance,
169
Refusal of access to premises
Reheating
inspection order to gain access, 173,
184 food for hot holding, temperature
requirements, 72, 388
notification of right to access, 173
food from a hermetically sealed
reporting on inspection form, 173
container, 72, 388
Refusal to sign acknowledgement of
ready-to-eat food for immediate
inspection reports receipt, 174
service, 72
Refuse. See Refuse, recyclables, and
Reinspection
returnables
after permit suspension, time frame
definition, 17
from written request receipt, 187
Index-37

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
order, hearing officer's powers, 192 required form and contents, 188
Reinstatement Responsibilities
excluded or restricted employee, 33, food employee reporting illness, 28,
177, 322, 335 31, 299, 583, 586, 587
suspended permit, 187 permit holder for ceasing operations,
170
Releasing food from hold order, 186
permit holder for permit retention, 169
Remedies
person in charge duties and
administrative, 192
authorities, 28, 30, 583
conditions warranting, criteria for
person in charge reporting ill
seeking, 183
employee, 30, 169, 299, 583, 586,
hearing officer, 191, 192 587
judicial, 196 regulatory authority for permit
issuance, 168
Reminder, definition, 17
Restaurant. See Food establishment
Remodeling of food establishment,
definition
plans and specifications, 163
Restrict, definition, 17
Removal
Restricted egg, definition, 17
exclusions and restrictions, 33, 317,
322, 335 Restricted use pesticide, definition, 17
refuse, recyclables, and returnables, Restriction
137
employee, release, 33, 177, 322, 335
Reporting imminent health hazard by
food employee, 31, 33, 177, 317, 319,
person in charge, 175
322
Reporting, disease, medical condition
order for infected or diseased
by food employee or conditional employee, 177
employee, 28, 31, 288, 583, 586,
service of notice, 182
587
Resumption of operations, 175
by person in charge, 25, 30, 169, 299,
583, 586, 587 Retail food store. See Food
establishment definition
Request for hearing, 187
Retention tank, 133
Re-service
Retirement home, 150
definition, 17
Returnables. See Refuse, recyclables,
food, HSP, 89
and returnables
unused, returned food, 65
onsite cleaning and refilling, 62
Response to hearing notice
Reuse of shells, prohibition, 112, 452
basis and time frame, 187
Index-38

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
Review of plans by regulatory authority, Roofs, protective barrier, 143
168, 486
Rooms. See Physical Facilities
Revocation of permit. See Summary
Safe material, definition, 18
permit suspension
Safeguards, procedural, 181
Rhea. See Ratite definition
Salad bars
Right of appeal, denial of permit
application, 169 monitoring by food employees, 65
Right to hearing use of clean tableware, 27, 62
response to notice, 187 Salmonella Typhi, 295, 299, 317
waiver, 194 cause of disease outbreak and
employee illness, person in charge
Rights
knowledge and duties, 24, 28
parties to hearing, 193
exclusions and restrictions, conditions
preservation, 181 for, 32
recipients of orders or decisions, 181 exclusions, removal of, 36
respondent to hearing, notice, 189, reporting of health and activities, 29,
192 30
Rinsing procedures, equipment and reporting responsibility of employee,
utensils, 116 31, 174
Risk reporting responsibility of person in
charge, 29, 30
basis for frequency of inspection, 171,
172, 528 responsibility of employee,
compliance with restriction or
definition, 18
exclusion, 31, 32
Roasts, beef and pork
responsibility of person in charge,
minimum holding time/oven exclude or restrict, 30
parameters for cooking, 67, 378,
responsibility of person in charge,
632
prohibit conditional employee, 30
reheating, 72
restriction, removal of, 39
Rodent control
Salmonella, Nontyphoidal. See
in food establishments, 149 Nontyphoidal Salmonella (NTS)
outer openings, protected against, Sampling
143
access, 194
poisonous or toxic materials, 154,
food to determine regulatory
155, 157, 159
compliance, 186
Rodents, dead or trapped, removal, 149
report, nonpublic water system, 124
Roe. See Fish definition
water, nonpublic system, 124
Index-39

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
Sanctions or penalties, maximum, in Seeing Eye dog. See Service animal
hearing notice, 189, 190
Self-draining warewashing
Sanitization sinks/drainboards, 101
after cleaning, 117 Self-service
chemical, warewashing equipment, clean tableware for second portions
109 and refills, 27, 62
definition, 18 consumer, protection from
contamination, 65
equipment and utensils, 116
handling of single-service and single-
hot water temperature, manual
use articles, 121
warewashing equipment, 109
utensil availability, 104
hot water temperature, mechanical
warewashing equipment, 109 Sentences for violations, 192, 196
Sanitizing solutions Sentry dogs. See Patrol dogs
availability, 105 Service animal
chemical, minimum contact time, 117 definition, 18
CIP equipment requirements, 95 handling, 45
criteria, 109, 156 handwashing after handling, 42
detergent-sanitizer, 104, 111, 116 on premises, 150
maintained clean, 108 Service of notice
testing device, availability, 105 proof of proper service, 182
testing device, chemical proper methods, 182
concentration, 111
time of effectiveness, 182
warewashing equipment, automatic
Service sinks
dispensing, 101
availability, 146
wiping cloth storage, 61
handwashing restriction, 42
Scallops. See Molluscan shellfish
plumbing system, numbers and
Screening
capacity, 127
backflow prevention device, 127
Servicing area
outer openings, protected, 143
definition, 18
tank vent, 130, 466
outdoor, overhead protection, 144
vending machines, 102
Serving dishes. See Tableware,
water conditioning device, 126 definition
Seafood. See Fish definition Settlement
Sealed, definition, 18
Index-40

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
approval of consent agreement by cause of disease outbreak and
hearing officer, 191 employee illness, person in charge
knowledge and duties, 24
authorization, 194
exclusions and restrictions, conditions
respondent acceptance as waiver of
for asymptomatic, 32, 317
right to appeal, 194
exclusions and restrictions, conditions
Sewage
for symptomatic, 31, 317
backflow prevention, 132
exclusions and restrictions, removal
conveying, 133 of, 37
definition, 18 reporting of health and activities, 29,
30, 299
disposal system, approved, design
and construction, 133 reporting responsibility of employee,
31, 174
establishment drainage system,
design and installation, 132 reporting responsibility of person in
charge, notify regulatory, 30
holding tank, mobile, 132
responsibility of employee,
Sewage, other liquid waste, and
compliance with restriction or
rainwater
exclusion, 31
drainage, 133
responsibility of person in charge,
removal from mobile food
exclude or restrict, 30
establishments, 133
responsibility of person in charge,
waste retention tank, flushing, 133
prohibit conditional employee, 30
Shatterproof bulbs. See Light bulbs,
Shigella spp
protective shielding
cause of employee illness and
Shellfish control authority, definition, 18
disease outbreak, person in charge
Shellfish, molluscan. See Molluscan knowledge and duties, 24, 28
shellfish
employee illness, reporting, 28
Shells, use limitation, 112
exclusions and restriction, adjustment
Shellstock of, 34
date marking, 77 exclusions and restrictions, conditions
for asymptomatic, 32
definition, 18
exclusions and restrictions, conditions
maintaining identification, 52, 54
for symptomatic, 31
Shielding. See Light bulbs, protective
exclusions and restrictions, removal
shielding
of, 37
Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli
reporting of health and activities, 29,
cause of disease outbreak and 30
employee illness, person in charge,
295
Index-41

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
reporting responsibility of employee, use limitations, 108
31, 174
Skids. See Case lot handling equipment
reporting responsibility of person in
Slacking
charge, notify regulatory, 30
definition, 19
responsibility of employee,
compliance with restriction or time/temperature control for safety
exclusion, 32 food conditions, 73
responsibility of person in charge, Slash-resistant gloves, 62, 374
exclude or restrict, 30
Sleeping quarters. See Living/sleeping
responsibility of person in charge, quarters
prohibit conditional employee, 30
Smoking. See Tobacco use by
Shucked shellfish employees
definition, 19 Smooth, definition, 19
original container, 53 Sneeze guards. See Food display
packaging and identification, 52 Sneezing, coughing, or runny nose by
employees, food contamination
records, maintaining, 54
prevention, 44
Shutoff device, vending machine, water
Soap. See Cleaning agents
or liquid food, 101
Soiled tableware, handling, 121
Single-service and single-use articles
Solder, use limitation for Food-contact
construction materials, characteristics,
surfaces, 92
93
Source, approved
handling to prevent contamination,
121 drinking water, 123
required use, 111 food, 47
reuse limitation, 111 molluscan shellfish, 49
storage, 120 Sous vide packing. See Reduced
Oxygen Packaging
storage location prohibition, 105, 120
Spacing
Single-service articles, definition, 19
counter-mounted equipment, 106
Single-use articles, definition, 19
fixed equipment, 106
Sink compartment requirements,
manual warewashing, 103 poisonous or toxic material
separation, 154
Sink, handwashing. See Handwashing
sink poisonous or toxic materials, retail
sale, 159
Sinks, warewashing
Spatulas, use to avoid contaminating
cleaning agents, 108
food, 28
self-draining, 101
Index-42

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
Specialized processing, 262, 413 STEC. See Shiga toxin-producing
Escherichia coli
requirement, variance, 80, 412, 413
Stirrers. See Single-service articles
ROP without a variance, 81, 415
Stitch pumping. See Injected
Specifications. See Plans
Storage
Sponges, use limitation, 92
cleaned equipment, utensils, linens
Spoons. See Tableware definition
and single-service and single-use
Spot cleaning. See Floors, dustless articles, 120
cleaning methods
first aid supplies in food
Sprouts, seed, 262 establishments, 158
as TCS, see Time/temperature control food contact with water or ice, 60
for safety food, definition, 20, 283
food containers, common name, 58
guidance, 256, 377, 428
food, packaged and unpackaged, 57
prohibition where highly susceptible
fruits and vegetables in chemicals,
population is served, 88
156
variance, 81
location prohibition, clean equipment,
Stainless steel. See Cleanable, See utensils, linens, and single-service
also Easily Cleanable and single-use articles, 105
Standards maintenance tools, 149
Food Code, 1 medicines, 158
uniform, advantages, vii poisonous or toxic materials,
separation, 154
Standards of identity, packaged food, 84
refuse, recyclables, and returnables,
State or local statutes, regulations, and
136, 147
ordinances, 179
soiled linens, 118
Steak tartare, consumer advisory, 68,
86 stock and retail sale, display of
poisonous or toxic materials, 159
Steak, whole-muscle intact beef
Storage areas for refuse, recyclables,
cooking, 68, 378
and returnables
source, 48, 353
capacity and availability, 135
Steam
designated, 135, 147
cleaning implements and supplies,
indoor, construction and design, 134
135
location, 147
mixing valves, 126
outdoor, construction and design, 134
tables, temperature measurement,
100 Storage cabinets, location for
contamination prevention, 105, 445
ventilation, 146
Index-43

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
Storing food to prevent cross Sweeping compounds. See Floors,
contamination, 55, 57 dustless cleaning methods
Straws. See Single-service articles Tablecloths. See Linens
Street foods. See Food establishment, Table-mounted equipment. See
definition, mobile Counter-mounted equipment
Studs, joists, and rafters Tableware. See Single-service articles
cleanability, 141 clean, consumer self-service, duties
of PIC, 27
moisture exposure prohibition, 141
clean, second portions and refills, 62
Stuffing, cooking, 67
contamination prevention, handling,
Subpoenas, issued by hearing officer,
121
191
definition, 19
Sulfites. See Additives
preset, handling, 121
Summary permit suspension
soiled and clean, handling, 121
conditions warranting, 186
Tag on food
disease intervention method, 186
hold order, 185
notice, contents, 186
official, 185
service of, 182
removal, 186
term of suspension, reinstatement,
187 Tag/label, for molluscan shellfish
time frame for reinspection, 187 original container, 53
warning or hearing not required, 186 record keeping, 54
Summary suspension of operations for requirements, 52
imminent health hazard, 186
Take-home food containers, refilling,
Summons, issuance, 195 limitations, 62
Supervision of personnel TCS food. See Time/temperature
control for safety food
demonstration of knowledge, 24
Temperature measuring devices
person in charge, 26
accuracy, 96
Surface characteristics
calibration,, 111
indoor areas, 139
definition, 19
outdoor areas, 140, 144
design and construction, 94, 96, 99
Suspension, 177
food storage unit, air, 99
compliance and enforcement, 179
food, provided and accessible, 104
operations, imminent health hazard,
175 probe, small diameter, 104
Index-44

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
scale, 96 Testimony under oath at hearing, 193
warewashing machines, 100 Testing kit for sanitizing solutions,
availability, 105, 444
warewashing, accessibility, 105
Thawing time/temperature control for
Temperature, food
safety food, conditions, 73
cold and hot food holding, 75
Thermometer, thermocouple, thermistor.
cold and hot food, holding capacity, See Temperature measuring device
103
Threads, "V" type, 95
cooking, allowance for bare hands
Three compartment sink, 103
with RTE, 55
Time as public health control for
cooking, manufacturer instructions, 70
time/temperature control for safety
cooking, plant food, 69 food, 78
cooking, raw animal foods, 66, 69 in highly susceptible populations
(HSP), 89
cooking, whole meat roast, 67
Time frame
cooling, 74, 75
appeal, 189
freezing, 71
appeal, denial of permit, 169
frozen, 73
correction of core item violation, 176
receiving, 51
correction of priority item or priority
reheating, 72
foundation item violation, 175
slacking, 73
reinspection, 187
steak, whole-muscle intact, 68
response to hearing notice or request
thawing, 73
for hearing, 187
Temperature, warewashing
Time/temperature control for safety food
sanitization, chemical, 109
definition, 20, See also Food definition
sanitization, manual, hot water, 109
guidance, 286
sanitization, mechanical, hot water,
Tobacco product, definition, 22
109
Tobacco use by employees, food
wash solution, manual, 108
contamination prevention, 44
wash solution, mechanical, 109
Tofu, immersion in ice or water, 60
Temporary food establishment
Toilet rooms
application for permit, 166, 167
convenience and accessibility, 147
construction materials, 139
doors, closing, 149
definition, 20
enclosed design and construction,
water availability, 125 142
Index-45

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
location of handwashing sinks, 128 case lot moving, 102
receptacle for sanitary napkins, 135 game animals, 50
storage prohibitions, 64, 105, 120 insulated containers, 100
Toilet tissue, availability, 145 refuse, recyclables, and returnables,
vehicles, 137
Toiletries. See Personal care items
sewage vehicles, 133
Toilets and urinals
soiled linens, 118
number, 127, 145
transportation vehicle. See Food
use limitation, 127
establishment definition, See also
Tongs, use to avoid contaminating food, Servicing area definition
55
water vehicles, 125
Toothpaste. See Personal care items
Trash. See Refuse
Toothpicks. See Single-service articles
Tumblers. See Tableware definition
Towels
Tuna, 71
availability, 145
Turtle. See Fish definition
disposable, waste receptacle, 135,
Two compartment sink. See Sink
145
compartment requirements
Toxic. See Poisonous or toxic materials
Unnecessary
Tracking powder. See also Pesticides in
items, 136, 150
food establishments
ledges, projections and crevices, 95
pesticide prohibition, 157
persons, 26
Trade secrets
Urinals
confidentiality in hearings, 190
number, 127
confidentiality in inspection reports
and submitted plans, 165 use limitation, 127
Training USDA, definition, 22
competency of inspectors, 172, 256 Use by date, 404, 633, See also Date
marking
documentation for bare hand contact,
55, 366, 590 reduced oxygen packaging, 81, 84,
564
duties, employees received, 28, 292
User information, xi
program, HACCP plan, 68, 81, 89,
164, 165, 256, 556, 559 Utensils
program, reduced oxygen packaging air drying, 119
(ROP), 81, 570
cast iron, use limitation, 91
Transport
cleaning criteria, 112
Index-46

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
cleaning frequency, 112 modifications and waivers, Code
application, 162
consumer self-service availability, 65
molluscan shellfish tanks, 99
contact with food, 60
rationale, 162
copper, use limitation, 92
regulatory authority, 162
definition, 22
requirement for HACCP plan, 163
durability and strength, 94
requirement for specialized food
galvanized metal, use limitation, 92
processing methods, 80, 412
good repair and calibration, 111
Vegetables, raw
in-use and between-use, storage, 60
cooking for hot holding, 69
lead, use limitation, 92
seed sprouts, 57
multiuse, construction materials, 91
segregation, preventing
nonstick coatings, non-scoring,non- contamination, 57
scratching, 93
washing, 59
precleaning, 115
whole or cut, immersion in ice or
preventing contamination, 121 water, 60
racks, capacity, complete immersion, Vehicles for removal of refuse,
101 recyclables, and returnables, 137
sanitization, 116 Vending machines
serving, for consumer self-service condiments, packaging to prevent
operations, 104 contamination, 65
storing, cleaned and sanitized, 120 definition, 22
wet cleaning methods, 115 definition, location, 22
wood, use limitation, 92 design and construction, automatic
shutoff, 99
Utility lines, cleanability, 140
design and construction, can openers,
Vacuum packaging. See Reduced
98
Oxygen Packaging (ROP)
design and construction, doors and
Variance
openings, design and construction,
based on HACCP plan, 69
102
conformance with procedures, 162
design and construction, liquid waste
cooking raw animal foods, 69 products, 101
definition, 22 design and construction, stage
closure, 98
documentation, 162
packaging, original container, TCS
guidance, 256, 262
food, 64
Index-47

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
refuse receptacle, location, 134 Waivers. See Modifications, See also
Variance
time/temperature control for safety
food, disposition, 78 Walk-in refrigerator
Ventilation systems carpeting prohibition, 141
adequacy, capacity, 104 drains, 132
cleaning, nuisance and discharge Walking surfaces. See Surface
prohibition, 148 characteristics
drip prevention, design and Wall and ceiling coverings and coatings,
construction, 96 cleanability, 141
filters, design and construction, 95 Walls, exterior, protective barrier, 143
Ventilation, mechanical, 146 Walls, floors, and ceilings, cleanability,
140
Verification of correction of priority item
or priority foundation item violation, Warewashing definition, 22
176
Warewashing equipment
Vermin. See Insect control, See Pest
chemical sanitizer, concentration, 111
control, See Rodent control
chemical sanitizer, use of chemical,
Violations
109
civil, fees and penalties, 196
clean solutions, 108
conditions warranting administrative
cleaning agents, 108
or judicial remedy, 183
cleaning frequency, 108
core item, time frame to correct, 176
Warewashing equipment, manual
criminal, fines and sentences, 196
alternative, 103, 115
demonstration of knowledge, 24
detergent-sanitizers for chemical
documentation of findings, 173
sanitization, 111
history of, role in frequency of
heaters and baskets, 100
inspections, 172
hot water sanitization temperatures,
inspections and corrections, 171
109
notice to correct, 174
sink compartment requirements, 103
specifying correction timeframe, 174
temperature measuring devices, 105
uncorrected, 183
wash solution temperature, 108
verification and documentation of
Warewashing machines, mechanical
correction, 176
automatic dispensing of detergents
Virus. See Disease outbreaks
and sanitizers, 101
Vomiting, reportable employee
automatic dispensing, visual
symptom, 28
verification, 101
Index-48

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
data plate operating specifications, use limitation, 118
100, 108
Washing
drain connection, 132
fruits and vegetables, 55, 59, 64, 156,
hot water sanitization temperatures, 370
109
hand washing sink, 126
internal baffles, 100
linens, 118
loading of soiled items, 115
methods, equipment, and utensils,
pressure device, 96, 101 115, 116
sanitization pressure, 109 see Handwashing, 41
temperature measuring devices, 100, Waste
104
liquid, 18, 132, 133
wash solution temperature, 109
solid, 17, 134, 135, 136, 137, 147
Warewashing methods
Waste receptacle for disposable towels,
precleaning, 115 135, 145
rinsing procedures, 116 Waste retention tank, flushing, 133, 468
Warewashing sinks Water
alternative, 103 inlet/outlet, protective device, 131
drainboards, self-draining, 101 knowledge by person in charge, 25
use limitation, 108, 447 nondrinking, 124, 128, 459
Warnings pressure, 101, 111, 124, 460
by regulatory authority, 169, 170 storage or display of food in contact
with, 60
consumer, 86
system flushing, 131
hold order, 185
Water activity, definition, 3
juice labeling, 73, 88
Water conditioning device, 126
restriction or exclusion order, 177
Water quality
Warrants, judicial enforcement
proceedings, 183, 196 sampling, 124, 459
Wash solution temperature standards, 124, 458
manual warewashing, 108, 109, 447, Water reservoir of fogging devices,
448 cleaning, 128
mechanical warewashing, 109 Water source
Washers and dryers, clothes approved system, 123
availability, 104 bottled drinking, 123
location, 106 capacity, 124
Index-49

FDA Food Code 2022 Index
flushing and disinfection, 123 consuming undercooked, 48
Water supply, alternative, 125 cooking, 68
Water system definition, 22
compressed air filter, 131 labeling, 353
device, inspection and service, 128 Windows, tight-fitting, 143
flushing, 131 Wiping cloths
prohibition of cross connection, 128 air-drying locations, 119
public and nonpublic, 123, 125 laundering, 104, 118
Water tank stored in sanitizing solution, 61, 119,
373
"V" type threads, use limitation, 130
use limitation, 61
hose fitting, protection, 130, 131
Wood, use limitation for food-contact
hose, construction and identification,
surfaces, 92
130
Work clothes, laundering on premises,
inlet and outlet, sloped to drain, 130
104
pump and hoses, dedicated use, 131
Wound, infected. See Lesion, containing
vent, protected, 130 pus
Watertight joint, equipment openings, 96 Wrapped food. See Packaged
Wet cleaning, equipment and utensils, honestly presented, 85, 419
115
preventing contamination, 45, 57
Whole-muscle, intact beef
Wrapped tableware, preset, 121
Index-50