--- Page 1 ---
New York Pul

Explore others! |

What's on the menu? About Oe © |

Menus [Dishes [Data [Blog T [bout [Help

About

With approximately 45,000 menus dating from the 1840s to
the present, The New York Public Library's restaurant ment
collection is one ofthe largest in the world, used by
historians chefs, novelists and everyday food enthusiasts.
‘Trouble is, the menus are very difficult to search for the
greatest treasures they contain: specific information about
dishes, prices the organization of meals, and all the stares
‘these things tellus about the history of food and eulture,

To solve this, we're working to improve the collection by
{ransecibing the menus, dish by dish. Doing this will allow us
to dramatically expand the ways in which the collection can
bbe researched and accessed, opening the door to new kinds of
discoveries. We've built a simple tool that makes the
transecibing pretty easy todo, but its big job, so we need
your help. Fooling hungry?

Questions? Comments? Want to stay in touel as the project
develops? Contact us at menus@enyplorg

The menus
‘The New York Public Library's menu colleetion, housed in
‘the Rare Book Division, originated through the energetic
efforts of Miss Frank B, Buttolph (1850-1924), who, in 1900,
began to collect menus on the Library’ behalf. Miss Buttolph
added more than 25,000 menus tothe collection, before
leaving the Library ia 1924, The colleetion has continued to
sxow through additional its of graphic, gastronomic,
topical, or sociological interest, especially but not exclusively
‘Now York-related. The collection now contains
approximately 45,000 items, about quarter of which have so
far been digitized and made available in the NYPL Digital
Gallery

‘he Rare Books Division of The New York Public Library
houses approximately 200,00 titles, covering five centuries
of printing from the 1450s to the present—and representing
Continental Europe, England, and the Americas

FAQ
What are the goals for this project?

‘When we launched in late April, 2011, our sights were set on
the approximately 9,000 menus photographed several years
ago for inclusion in the NYPL Digital Gallery. Volunteers
‘ransecihed those in about three manths! Since then, welve
been steadily scanning additional items from the eollection
and loading them into the transcription queue. The ultimate
goal isto get the whole colletion transeribed and to make
the data available for exploration and use by researchers,
educators, chefs and other interested folk. Along the way, we
‘may add other user-solicted tasks such as geolocation or
various remediation and linking ofthe data. We've also
looking into ways of expanding the seope ofthe dataset
‘through partnerships with other libraries and archives with
significant menu collections.

What exaetly will transcribing accomplish?

[Right now, the only information that is digitally searchable in
‘our ments isthe descriptive data created foreach item when
they were cataloged. This includes useful things like the
same of the restaurant, its geographical location, date etc
But the actual menu contents — all the dishes and wines ones
‘upon a time offered tothe customer as they pondered the
‘options for their meal — is only accessible through good old-
fashioned sifting.

‘How will this information be used?

‘Researchers who use the collection — be they historians,
chefs, nutritional scfentists, or novelists Tooking fora juiey
period detail —often have very specific questions they’re
trying to answer. Where were aysters served in 19th century
‘New York and how did their vatieties and eost change over
time? When did apple pe first appear on the Library's
‘menus? Wat about pizza? What was the price of a cup of
coffee in 1907?'To find out these sorts of things more easily,
swe need to extract all the delicious data frozen as pixels
inside these digital menu photos. The best way todo ths is
‘ranseciption,

‘Update: A great example of scholarly investigation into the
still-evolving data set isthe Cursting Mens project of Katie
‘Rawson and Trevor Mufoa

So just transcribe, and presto?

‘Wall, the data will ned some additional cleanup in order for
‘ur search engine to handle synonyms, spelling variants,
faceting, al that good stuff, bat hopefully youll stat to get a
palpable sense right away of what you're helping to build
‘Every transeribed item instantly becomes part of a searchable
index, which allows you to much more nimbly trace dishes,
‘ingredients and prices across the collection. We'll be
‘occasionally blogging; and tweeting; about interesting
discoveries that come up along the way. We also have begun
tooffer some fun visualizations ofthe data (ike this),

Why transcribe? Why not just (

Good question! There are a few reasons. First, while we could
get decent OCR output from some of the clearer printed
menus, many others are handwritten, of use fanciful
typography and have idiosyncratic layonts that wil result in
litle more than alpbabet soup if we use mechanical
‘translation methods. A more compelling reason is that we're
{interested in unpacking some specific types of information
‘that are highly relevant to researchers: dishes and prices (and
eventually menu sections, geographies locations and
perhaps other data). ven with a erystal clear OCR text, a
‘human being will still wed to go through and identify each
‘individual dish, price, section appetizers, entrees, wines

l.), and soon. We're not just seooping out text from pages,
we're building a database of dishes!

lus, asa library we know that the more that people use a
collection, the more we collectively learn abont it. Our huneh
is that there is alot tobe gained by inviting the public to help
tus go through these fascinating artifacts with carefal
attention, menu by menu, dish by dish, We also hope that by
doing so, well stoke people's appetite (soto speak) to explore
‘the eallection further.

Wait, what's OCR?

Optical Character Recognition. Basially, isthe process by
which we extract usable, searchable text from scanned pages
1's how Google Books and Hathi Trust do thetr search.
Wikipedia has a good explanation,

Need help with anything other than
transcription?

Right now, we're focused primarily on two tasks: 1)
‘ransecibing dishes and pries; and 2) geotaseing menus
‘We've also considered other kinds of work down the road
‘that will help usadd even more valuc ta the database.
Possibilities include: menu sectioning (appetizers, entrees,
‘wines ete). We've also interested to see what the public does
‘with the data and what new researeh questions they propose,

Can L create an account?

‘Our current policy isto keep things as open as possible, but
‘we intend eventually tote into a NYPL-wie user aceount
system thats currently in the works. We'll always preserve
the option of participating withont a login, but providing,
‘way for more intensive contributors to identify themselves
will allow for a community to develop and the possibility of
‘more complex tasks. We're grateful for the time/effort you've
devoted to this project so far, and hope tobe able to
recognize some of our top contributors down the road

Will you pro API, data exports ete

‘We already havel All ofthat ean be found er

as the Library ever done something like
this before?

‘We have an active project where we're collaborating with the
public around our historic maps. Tae look!

Team
Rebecea F
Rebecca is The New York Public Library's Culinary
Collections Librarian and Electronic Resources Coordinator.
‘She is also the eo-eurator of the New York Publie Library's
latest exhibition Lunch Hour NYC. Rebeesa writes about the

ibrary's culinary collections on her blog Cookesi Books and
isa visiting professor at Pratt Institute's School of
Information and Library Science,

Jerman, Project Curato:

Michael Inman, Project Curator

‘Michaelis Curator of Rare Rooks for The Nev York Public
Library, administering a number ofthe institution's
collections and departments, including the Rare Hook
Division, George Arents Collection, and Historie Children's
Book Collection, among others. Me holds both a BA. and a
[MLA in English from the University of North Texas and a
‘MLS. from Pratt Institute's School of Information and

ibrary Science. Michael also serves as a visiting professor at
Prat Institute, where he teaches eourses on printing history
and special collections ibrarianship,

Ben Vershbow, Project Director

[en is the Director of NYPL's Digital Library + Labs
department, oversecing metadata digitization,
ppermissions/reproductions, and the explorations ofthe
[NYPL Labs team, Before joining the Library in 2008, he was.
Lltorial Dizector ofthe institute for the Puture ofthe Book,
‘a small Brookyn-based think tank exploring the future of
reading, writing and publishing.

Mauricio Giraldo, Designer/Developer

‘Mauricio spent the last twelve years designing and
developing interaction design projects for a wide range of
‘commercial, academic, private and public institutions
‘Mauricio isan Industrial Designer from Universidad de los
Andes in Bogot, Colombia where he als lectured for six
years, He also holds a Master in uman-Computer
Interaction from Carnegie Mellon University

Kristopher Kelly, Application
Developer/Data Analyst

ris has a BA in English from Harvard University and a
“Masters in Science and Information Studies from the
University of Texas in Austin, Currently, he serves at Senior
Applications Developer for NYPL's IT group, where he works
‘ona range of internal applications

David Riordan, Product Manager

David is the produet manager of NYPL Labs. When not at
‘work, he'sbiking, reading, and involved in policy advocacy

Emeriti
» Rebveea Austin, Collection Assistant
» Amy Azzarito, Project Co-Founder
» Edith Bellinghausen, Intern
» Barbara Bieck, Intern
» Ben Chartoff, Intern
» Amanda Glassman, Community Manager
+ Jayme Hall, Intern
» Leslie Harker, Intern
» Katie Kraase, Intern
» Zeeshan Lakhani, Application Developer
» Michael Lasearides, Project Advisor/Prototyper
Meredith Mann, Intern

‘rivaey Policy + Rules and Regulations « Policy on Patron-Generated Web Content + Terms and Conditions

A project of YP. Labs. With generous support from:

© 2 fitimanities

a

i

‘The Robert W. Wilson.
Charitable Trust
